The Project Gutenberg eBook of The moving finger
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The moving finger

Author: Natalie Sumner Lincoln

Illustrator: Charles L. Wrenn

Release date: August 8, 2024 [eBook #74210]

Language: English

Original publication: New York and London: D. Appleton and Company, 1918

Credits: D A Alexander, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MOVING FINGER ***





  _The_
  MOVING FINGER




By NATALIE SUMNER LINCOLN

  The Moving Finger
  The Nameless Man
  The Official Chaperon
  The Lost Despatch
  I Spy
  C. O. D.
  The Man Inside
  The Trevor Case

D. APPLETON & COMPANY, NEW YORK




[Illustration: “Object--matrimony,” he retorted.
                                              [PAGE 168]]




  _The_
  MOVING FINGER

  BY
  NATALIE SUMNER LINCOLN

  AUTHOR OF “THE NAMELESS MAN,” “I SPY,” “C. O. D.,”
  “THE LOST DESPATCH,” “THE TREVOR CASE,” ETC.

  [Illustration]

  ILLUSTRATED BY
  CHARLES L. WRENN

  D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
  NEW YORK      LONDON
  1918




  COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY
  D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
  COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY THE FRANK A. MUNSEY COMPANY

  Printed in the United States of America




  TO

  MR. AND MRS. THOMAS E. NEWBOLD

  THIS YARN IS SPUN WITH INFINITE AFFECTION




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                      PAGE

      I. VISIONS                                  1

     II. TRAGEDY                                  8

    III. TESTIMONY                               23

     IV. MORE TESTIMONY                          40

      V. DOROTHY DEANE, “SOCIETY EDITOR”         66

     VI. THE WALL BETWEEN                        81

    VII. AT THORNEDALE LODGE                     98

   VIII. MANY INVENTIONS                        114

     IX. IN THE ATTIC                           138

      X. THE BLACK-EDGED CARD                   154

     XI. MRS. PORTER GROWS INQUISITIVE          170

    XII. DETECTIVE MITCHELL ASKS QUESTIONS      186

   XIII. THE RED HERRING                        205

    XIV. PRO AND CON                            224

     XV. EDGED TOOLS                            243

    XVI. HARE AND HOUNDS                        259

   XVII. VERA RECEIVES A LETTER                 279

  XVIII. THE COUNTERFEIT BANK NOTE              293

    XIX. THE FIRST SHOT                         313

     XX. KA                                     322

    XXI. BLIND MAN’S BUFF                       329

   XXII. “THE MOVING FINGER WRITES--”           344

  XXIII. OUT OF THE MAZE                        352




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


  “Object--matrimony,” he retorted               _Frontispiece_

                                                    FACING PAGE

  “Yes, I heard,” Millicent could hardly articulate          16

  “Who’s there?” she called, as heavy steps approached      142

  “Hush!” he whispered. “No noise. Look----”                256




THE MOVING FINGER




CHAPTER I

VISIONS


THE swish of starched skirts caused the man in the bed to roll slowly
over, and for the first time patient and nurse regarded each other. The
silence grew protracted.

“Well?” The man’s tone was husky and the short interrogation was almost
lost among the pillows. He made a second attempt, and this time his
voice carried across the room. “What--what do you want?”

The nurse’s eyes, pupils dilated, shifted from his white face to the
glass in her outstretched hand, and the familiar sight of the medicine
and her starched uniform drove away her temporary loss of composure.

“Here is your medicine,” she announced, and at the sound of her low,
_traînante_ voice the patient clutched the bedclothes spasmodically.
He made no effort to take the glass.

“Put it on the table,” he directed and, reading correctly the look that
crept into her eyes, his voice rose again harshly. “Put it down, I
say--”

A rap at the closed hall door partly drowned his words, and without
replying Nurse Deane placed the glass on the table by the bed, and a
second later was looking out into the hall. She drew back at sight of
a tall man standing somewhat away from the entrance to the room, then
thinking better of her hesitancy she stepped into the hall and drew the
door shut behind her.

“What is it, Mr. Wyndham?” she inquired.

“I came up to ask if there is anything I can do for you?” Hugh Wyndham
moved over to her side, and Nurse Deane’s preoccupation prevented her
becoming conscious of his scrutiny. “I think Noyes exceeded matters
when he asked you to undertake the care of another patient.”

Vera Deane’s face lighted with one of her rare smiles. “Oh, no,” she
protested. “We nurses are always glad to assist in emergencies. Dr.
Noyes came in to see Mr. Porter and he explained that one of your
aunt’s dinner guests had been taken ill, and requested me to make him
comfortable for the night.”

“Still, with all you have to do for poor Craig it’s putting too much on
you,” objected Wyndham. “Let me telephone into Washington for another
night nurse, or, better still, call Nurse Hall.”

Vera laid a detaining hand on his arm. “Mrs. Hall was ill herself when
she went off duty; she needs her night’s rest,” she said earnestly. “I
assure you that I am quite capable of taking care of two patients.”

“It wasn’t that,” Hugh paused and reddened uncomfortably, started to
speak, then, thinking better of his first impulse, added lamely, “I
never doubted your ability, but--but--you’ve been under such a strain
with Craig--”

“Mr. Porter is improving,” interrupted Vera swiftly. “And as my new
patient is not seriously ill--”

“True,” Wyndham agreed, slightly relieved. “Just an attack of
vertigo--Noyes and I got him to bed without calling you.” He did not
think it necessary to add that he had stopped the surgeon sending for
her. “Noyes said you need only look in once or twice during the night
and see that he is all right.” A thought occurred to him, and he added
hastily: “Perhaps I can sit up with him--”

“That will hardly be necessary.” Vera’s tone of decision was
unmistakable. “I thank you for the offer,” raising grave eyes to his.
Wyndham bowed somewhat stiffly and moved away. “Just a moment, Mr.
Wyndham; what is the name of my new patient?”

Wyndham’s glance was a mixture of doubt and admiration.

“He is Bruce Brainard, a well-known civil engineer,” he said slowly,
halting by the head of the winding staircase. He looked thoughtfully
over the banisters before again addressing her. “Brainard is just
back from South America. I had no idea my aunt and Millicent knew him
so well, why”--in a sudden burst of confidence--“Brainard gave me to
understand before dinner that he and Millicent were engaged. Let me
know if I can assist you, Miss Deane. Good night,” and barely waiting
to hear her mumbled reply he plunged down the stairs.

Vera Deane’s return to the sick room was noiseless. She found her
patient lying on his side, apparently asleep, one arm shielding his
face and leaving exposed his tousled iron-gray hair. Vera glanced
at the empty medicine glass on the table by the bed, and a relieved
sigh escaped her; evidently Bruce Brainard had obeyed Dr. Noyes’
instructions and swallowed the dose prepared for him.

Making no unnecessary sound Vera arranged the room for the night,
screening the window so that a draught would not blow directly on
Brainard; lighted a night light and, placing a small silver bell on
the bed-table within easy reach of the patient, she turned out the
acetylene gas jet and glided from the room.

Entering the bedroom next to that occupied by Bruce Brainard Vera
smoothed the sheets for Craig Porter, lying motionless on his back, and
made the paralytic comfortable with fresh, cool pillows; then taking
a chair somewhat removed from the bed, she shaded her eyes from the
feeble rays of the night light and was soon buried in her own thoughts.
Dr. Noyes had made a professional call on Craig Porter earlier in the
evening, and he had forbidden Mrs. Porter or her daughter going to the
sick room after six o’clock.

As the night wore on sounds reached Vera of the departure of guests,
and first light then heavy footsteps passing back and forth in the
hall indicated that Mrs. Porter and her household were retiring for
the night. At last all noise ceased, and Vera, lost in memories of the
past, forgot the flight of time.

“Tick-tock, tick-tock”--Bruce Brainard’s dulled wits tried to count
the strokes, but unavailingly; he had lost all track of time. He was
only conscious of eyes glaring down at him. He dared not look up,
and for long minutes lay in agony, bathed in profuse perspiration.
His eyelids seemed weighed down with lead, but he could not keep his
cramped position much longer, and in desperation his eyes flew open
as he writhed nearer the bed-table. His breath came in easier gasps
as he became aware that the large bedroom was empty, and he passed a
feverish, shaking hand across his wet forehead. Pshaw! his imagination
was running away with him. But was it?

Again he glimpsed eyes gazing at him from a corner of the room--eyes
moving steadily nearer and nearer until even the surrounding darkness
failed to hide their expression. A sob broke from Brainard, and his
hand groped for the bell, only to fall palsied by his side.

Dawn was breaking and the faint, fresh breeze of early morning parted
the curtains before a window and disclosed to an inquisitive snow robin
a figure bending over a stationary washstand. Quickly the skilled
fingers made a paste of raw starch and, spreading it gently over the
stained linen, let it stand for a moment, then rinsed it in cold water.
With great patience the operation was repeated until at last the linen,
once more spotless, was laid across an improvised ironing-board, and an
electric iron soon smoothed out each crease and wrinkle. Leaving every
article in its accustomed place, the worker paused for an instant, then
stole from the bathroom and through the silent house.




CHAPTER II

TRAGEDY


“RAT-A-TAT! Rat-a-tat-tat!”

The imperative summons on his bedroom door roused Hugh Wyndham. It
seemed but a moment since he had fallen asleep, and he listened in
uncomprehending surprise to the repeated drummings, which grew in
volume and rapidity. His hesitancy was but momentary, however, and
springing out of bed he seized a bathrobe, unlocked the door and jerked
it open with such precipitancy that Vera Deane’s clenched fist expended
its force on empty air instead of on the wooden panel. Her livid face
changed the words on Wyndham’s lips.

“What’s happened?” he demanded. “Craig isn’t--?”

“No--no--not Mr. Porter”--in spite of every effort to remain calm Vera
was on the point of fainting. Totally unconscious of her action she
laid her hand in Wyndham’s, and his firm clasp brought a touch of
comfort. “It’s B--Mr. Brainard. Come!” And turning, she sped down the
hall, her rubber-heeled slippers making no more sound on the thick
carpet than Wyndham’s bare feet. She paused before a partly opened door
and, resting against the wall, her strength deserting her, she signed
to her companion to enter the bedroom.

Without wasting words Wyndham dashed by the nurse and reached the foot
of the bed; but there he stopped, and a horrified exclamation broke
from him. Bruce Brainard lay on the once spotless white linen in a pool
of blood which had flowed from a frightful gash across his throat.

Wyndham passed a shaking hand before his eyes and turned blindly toward
the door and collided with Vera.

“Don’t come in,” he muttered hoarsely. “It’s no spectacle for a woman.”
And as she drew back into the hall again he burst out almost violently:
“God! Brainard can’t be dead, really dead?” He glared at her. “Why
didn’t you go for Noyes instead of me? He’d know what to do.”

Vera shook her head. “Mr. Brainard was lifeless when I found him”--her
voice gained steadiness as her years of training in city hospitals and
still grimmer experiences in the American Hospital Corps abroad came to
her aid, and she grew the more composed of the two. “I went first to
summon Dr. Noyes--but his room was empty.”

“Empty!” echoed Wyndham dazedly. “At this hour?” and his glance
roved about the hall, taking in the still burning acetylene gas jet
at the far end of the hall, its artificial rays hardly showing in
the increasing daylight. How could the household remain asleep with
that ghastly tragedy so close at hand? He shuddered and turned half
appealingly to Vera. “What’s to be done?”

“The coroner--”

“To be sure, the coroner”--Wyndham snatched at the suggestion. “Do you
know his name?”

“No,” Vera shook her head, “but I can ask ‘Central.’ I presume the
coroner lives in Alexandria.”

“Yes, yes.” Wyndham was in a fever of unrest, chafing one hand over the
other. “Then will you call him? I’ll wait here until you return.”

Vera did not at once move down the hall. “Had I not better awaken Mrs.
Porter?” she asked.

“No, no,” Wyndham spoke with more show of authority. “I will break the
news to my aunt when you get back. The telephone is in the library. Go
there.”

He was doubtful if she heard his parting injunction for, hurrying
to the stairway, she paused and moved as if to enter Mrs. Porter’s
boudoir, the door of which stood ajar; then apparently thinking better
of her evident intention, she went noiselessly downstairs and Wyndham,
listening intently, detected the faint sound made by the closing of a
door on the floor below. Not until then did he relax his tense attitude.

Stepping back into Brainard’s bedroom he closed the door softly and
stood contemplating his surroundings, his eyes darting here and there
until each detail of the large handsomely furnished bedroom was
indelibly fixed in his mind.

There was no sign of a struggle having taken place; the two high-backed
chairs and the lounge stood in their accustomed places; the quaint
Colonial dresser near the window, the highboy against the farther wall,
and the bed-table were undisturbed. Only the bed with its motionless
burden was tossed and tumbled.

Wyndham hastily averted his eyes, but not before he had seen the opened
razor lying on the sheet to the left of Brainard and just beyond the
grasp of the stiffened fingers. Drawing in his breath with a hissing
noise, Wyndham retreated to his post outside the door and waited with
ever increasing impatience for the return of Vera Deane.

The noise of the opening and shutting of a door which had reached
Wyndham, contrary to his deductions, had been made not by the one
giving into the library, but by the front door. Vera Deane all but
staggered out on the portico and leaned against one of the columns.
The cold bracing air was a tonic in itself, and she drank it down in
deep gulps, while her gaze strayed over the sloping lawn and the hills
in the background, then across to where the Potomac River wound its
slow way between the Virginia and Maryland shores. The day promised to
be fair, and through the clear atmosphere she could dimly distinguish
the distant Washington Monument and the spires of the National Capital
snugly ensconced among the rolling uplands of Maryland.

The quaint atmosphere of a bygone age which enveloped the old
Virginia homestead had appealed to Vera from the first moment of her
arrival, and she had grown to love the large rambling country house
whose hospitality, like its name, “Dewdrop Inn,” had descended from
generation to generation. Mrs. Lawrence Porter had elected to spend the
winter there instead of opening her Washington residence.

Three months had passed since Vera had been engaged to attend Craig
Porter; three months of peace and tranquillity, except for the duties
of the sick room; three months in which she had regained physical
strength and mental rest, and now--

Abruptly turning her back upon the view Vera re-entered the front hall
and made her way down its spacious length until she came to the door
she sought. A draught of cold air blew upon her as she stepped over the
threshold, and with a slight exclamation of surprise she crossed the
library to one of the long French windows which stood partly open. It
gave upon a side portico and, stepping outside, she looked up and down
the pathway which circled the house. No one was in sight, and slightly
perplexed she drew back, closed the window, and walked over to the
telephone instrument which stood on a small table near by. Her feeling
of wonderment grew as she touched the receiver--it was still warm from
the pressure of a moist hand.

Vera paused in the act of lifting the receiver from its hook and
glanced keenly about the library; apparently she was alone in the room,
but which member of the household had preceded her at the telephone?

The old “grandfather” clock in one corner of the library was just
chiming a quarter of six when a sleepy “Central” answered her call. It
took several minutes to make the operator understand that she wished to
speak to the coroner at Alexandria, and there was still further delay
before the “Central” announced: “There’s your party.”

Coroner Black stopped Vera’s explanations with an ejaculation, and his
excited intonation betrayed the interest her statement aroused.

“I can’t get over for an hour or two,” he called. “You say you have
no physician--let me see! Ah, yes! Send for Beverly Thorne; he’s a
justice of the peace as well as a physician. Tell him to take charge
until I come;” and click went his receiver on the hook.

Vera looked dubiously at the telephone as she hung up the receiver.
Pshaw! It was no time for indecision--what if an ancient feud did
exist between the Thornes and the Porters, as testified by the “spite
wall” erected by a dead and gone Porter to obstruct the river view
from “Thornedale”! In the presence of sudden death State laws had to
be obeyed, and such things as the conventions, aye, and feuds, must be
brushed aside. Only two days before, when motoring with Mrs. Porter,
that stately dame had indicated the entrance to “Thornedale” with a
solemn inclination of her head and the statement that its present
owner, Dr. Beverly Thorne, would never be received at her house. But
Coroner Black desired his immediate presence there that morning! In
spite of all she had been through, a ghost of a smile touched Vera’s
lovely eyes as she laid aside the telephone directory and again called
“Central.”

Five seconds, ten seconds passed before the operator, more awake,
reported that there was no response to her repeated rings.

“Keep it up,” directed Vera, and waited in ever growing irritation.

“Well?” came a masculine voice over the wires. “What is it?”

“I wish to speak to Dr. Beverly Thorne.”

“This is Dr. Thorne at the telephone--speak louder, please.”

Vera leaned nearer the instrument. “Mr. Bruce Brainard has died
suddenly while visiting Mrs. Lawrence Porter. Kindly come at once to
Dewdrop Inn.”

No response; and Vera, with rising color, was about to repeat her
request more peremptorily when Thorne spoke.

“Did Mr. Brainard die without medical attendance?” he asked.

It was Vera’s turn to hesitate. “I found him dead with his throat cut,”
she stated, and the huskiness of her voice blurred the words so that
she had to repeat them. This time she was not kept waiting for a reply.

“I will be right over,” shouted Thorne.

[Illustration: “Yes, I heard,” Millicent could hardly articulate.]

As Vera rose from the telephone stand a sound to her left caused her
to wheel in that direction. Leaning for support against a revolving
bookcase stood Millicent Porter, and her waxen pallor brought a
startled cry to Vera’s lips.

“Yes, I heard.” Millicent could hardly articulate, and her glance
strayed hopelessly about the room. “I--I must go to mother.”

“Surely.” Vera laid a soothing hand on her shoulder. “But first take a
sip of this,” and she poured out a glass of cognac from the decanter
left in the room after the dinner the night before. She had almost to
force the stimulant down the girl’s throat, then, placing her arm about
her waist, she half supported her out of the room and up the staircase.

As they came into view Hugh Wyndham left his post by Brainard’s door
and darted toward them. Millicent waved him back and shrank from his
proffered hand.

“Not now, dear Hugh,” she stammered, reading the compassion in his fine
dark eyes. “I must see mother--and alone.” With the false strength
induced by the cognac she freed herself gently from Vera’s encircling
arm and, entering her mother’s bedroom, closed the door behind her.

Wyndham and Vera regarded each other in silence. “Better so,” he
muttered. “I confess I dreaded breaking the news to Aunt Margaret.”
The gong in the front hall rang loudly and he started. “Who’s coming
here at this hour?” he questioned, turning to descend the stairs.

“It is probably Dr. Thorne, the justice of the peace,” volunteered
Vera, taking a reluctant step toward Brainard’s bedroom. “He said he
would run right over.”

“Run over!” echoed Wyndham blankly. “Thorne? You surely don’t mean
Beverly Thorne?”

“Yes.”

Wyndham missed a step and recovered his balance with difficulty just as
a sleepy, half-dressed footman appeared in the hall below hastening to
the front door. Wyndham continued to gaze at Vera as if not crediting
the evidence of his ears. From below came the murmur of voices, then a
man stepped past the bewildered servant and approached the staircase.
Then only did Wyndham recover his customary poise.

“This way, Dr. Thorne,” he called softly, and waited while the newcomer
handed his overcoat and hat to the footman and joined him on the
stairs. Vera, an interested spectator, watched the two men greet each
other stiffly, then turning she led the way into Brainard’s bedroom.

Neither man guessed the effort it cost Vera to keep her eyes turned on
the dead man as with a tremor now and then in her voice she recounted
how she had entered the bedroom to see her patient and had made the
ghastly discovery.

“I then notified Mr. Wyndham,” she concluded.

“Did you visit your patient during the night?” questioned Thorne, never
taking his eyes from the beautiful woman facing him.

“Yes, doctor, at half past one o’clock. Mr. Brainard was fast asleep.”

“And the remainder of the night--”

“I spent with my other patient, Mr. Craig Porter.” Vera moved
restlessly. “If you do not require my assistance, doctor, I will return
to Mr. Porter,” and barely waiting for Thorne’s affirmative nod, she
slipped away, and resumed her seat in the adjoining bedroom halfway
between the window and Craig Porter’s bedside.

From that vantage point she had an unobstructed view of the shapely
head and broad shoulders of the young athlete whose prowess in
college sports had gained a name for him even before his valor in the
aviation corps of the French army had heralded him far and near. He had
been taken from under his shattered aëroplane six months before in a
supposedly dying condition, but modern science had wrought its miracle
and snatched him from the grave to bring him back to his native land a
hopeless paralytic, unable to move hand or foot.

As she listened to Craig Porter’s regular breathing Vera permitted her
thoughts to turn to Beverly Thorne; his quiet, self-possessed manner,
his finely molded mouth and chin and expressive gray eyes, had all
impressed her favorably, but how account for his lack of interest in
Bruce Brainard--he had never once glanced toward the bed while she was
recounting her discovery of the tragedy. Why had he looked only at her
so persistently?

Had Vera been able to see through lath and plaster, her views would
have undergone a change. Working with a skill and deftness that
aroused Wyndham’s reluctant admiration, Beverly Thorne made a thorough
examination of the body and the bed, taking care not to disarrange
anything. Each piece of furniture and the articles on tables, dresser,
and mantel received his attention, even the curtains before the window
were scrutinized.

“Has anyone besides you and Miss Deane been in this room since the
discovery of the tragedy?” asked Thorne, breaking his long silence.

“No.”

“When was Mr. Brainard taken ill?”

“During dinner last night. Dr. Noyes said it would be unwise for him to
return to Washington, so Mrs. Porter suggested that he stay here all
night, and I loaned him a pair of pajamas,” Wyndham, talking in short,
jerky sentences, felt Thorne’s eyes boring into him.

“I should like to see Dr. Noyes,” began Thorne. “Where--”

“I’ll get him,” Wyndham broke in, hastening to the door; he disappeared
out of the room just as Thorne picked up the razor and holding it
between thumb and forefinger examined it with deep interest.

However, Wyndham was destined to forget his errand for, as he sped down
the hall, a door opened and his aunt confronted him.

“Wait, Hugh.” Mrs. Porter held up an imperative hand. “Millicent has
told me of poor Bruce’s tragic death, and Murray,” indicating the
footman standing behind her, “informs me that Dr. Beverly Thorne has
had the effrontery to force his way into this house--and at such a
time.”

She spoke louder than customary under the stress of indignation, and
her words reached Beverly Thorne as he appeared in the hall. He never
paused in his rapid stride until he joined the little group, and his
eyes did not fall before the angry woman’s gaze.

“It is only at such a time as this that I would think of intruding,” he
said. “Kindly remember, madam, that I am here in my official capacity
only. Before I sign a death certificate, an inquest must decide whether
your guest, Bruce Brainard, committed suicide--or was murdered.”




CHAPTER III

TESTIMONY


THE day nurse, Mrs. Christine Hall, the severe lines of her face
showing more plainly in the strong afternoon light and her forehead
puckered in a frown, watched from the bedroom window the parking of
automobiles on the lawn before “Dewdrop Inn,” with an ear attentively
cocked to catch any sound from the bed where Craig Porter lay looking
at the opposite wall with expressionless eyes. The mud-incrusted
automobiles were little varied in shape or make, and the men who
climbed out of them were mostly of middle age, and the seriousness of
their manner as they greeted each other, or stood in groups chatting
with late comers, impressed Nurse Hall. As the last one disappeared up
the steps of the portico and out of her line of vision, she left the
window and hurried to a closed door, but before she could turn the knob
the door opened and Vera Deane stepped into the bedroom.

“I was just going to call you,” exclaimed Nurse Hall. “The men seem all
to have arrived.”

Vera consulted her wrist watch. “The inquest was called for two
o’clock; they are prompt.”

“To the minute,” agreed her companion. “Are you going downstairs
immediately?”

“No, not until sent for.” Vera turned and wandered restlessly about the
room, taking care, however, that her footfall made no sound which might
disturb Craig Porter. She stopped in the shadow of a large wing chair
and regarded the motionless figure on the bed long and intently. When
she looked away she found Nurse Hall at her side.

“Does he always stare straight before him?” she asked, almost below her
breath.

“Yes.” Nurse Hall shuddered. “Always that same fixed stare. You can
bless your stars that you have him at night when he is generally
asleep. Sometimes he gives me the creeps.”

“Does he never speak?”

“No, never, and I don’t believe he ever will; the muscles of his throat
are paralyzed. But you need not whisper”--raising her voice. “He
doesn’t understand a word we say.”

“But our talking may annoy him.” The older woman colored; she was
sensitive about her voice, never having been able to conquer its shrill
quality, and she did not take kindly to any criticism of her conduct of
a sick room, especially from a younger and more inexperienced nurse.
Vera laid a quiet hand on her arm. “Forgive the suggestion, but I
cannot rid myself of the belief that often those we think unconscious
hear and understand more than we imagine.”

“Tut, my dear, not in this case. Mr. Porter understands nothing said to
him, even by his mother; and it’s been that way from the first,” Nurse
Hall added, seating herself in the armchair. “I was here when they
brought him back from Europe, and I must say that Dr. Noyes has worked
wonders--”

Vera was not listening--voices in the hall and the sound of advancing
footsteps came to them through the half-open door.

“Have you been notified to attend the inquest?” she asked. Her question
passed unheeded until Nurse Hall, raising a very red face from the
exertion of stooping, had tied her shoestring.

“No, I don’t have to go down,” she answered, puffing slightly. “I
slept soundly all last night. It is too bad your rest has to be
disturbed this afternoon; if you wish”--a sidelong glance accompanied
the words--“I will continue on duty until midnight and give you an
opportunity to make up lost sleep.”

“I don’t believe I could sleep now, thanks all the same. You forget I
found the--the body,” and a shudder which she could not suppress shook
Vera. “I see it whenever I close my eyes.”

“You poor thing!” Her companion patted her arm sympathetically. “We’ll
sleep better and feel differently after the inquest and they remove the
body. Someone is stopping at the door.”

Not waiting for the low rap that sounded a second later, Vera had sped
to open the door, and she found Murray, the footman, standing in the
hall.

“You are wanted, miss, in the library,” he said, and without a backward
glance Vera closed the bedroom door and followed the servant down the
staircase.

Two men, strangers to her, were lounging in the square entrance hall
near the front door, and at her approach they turned and watched her
until the portières, which divided the hall, hid her tall, graceful
figure from their sight. Vera paused an instant before opening the
library door, then, taking a deep breath, she stepped inside the room.

Grouped about the long center table were six men, while an elderly
man occupied a chair near at hand, and the eighth man in the room sat
before a side table taking notes. The elderly man, whose authoritative
air rightly led Vera to conclude that he was Coroner Black, was on his
feet instantly on catching sight of the new witness, and pulled forward
a chair for her.

“Miss Deane?” he questioned, and she bowed a silent response. “Then sit
here, madam, after McPherson administers the oath,” and at his words
the man at the small table stepped forward, Bible in hand.

The homelike appearance of the library and the comfortably seated men,
some with up-tilted chairs and sprawling legs, robbed the inquest
of its legal atmosphere, but as Vera repeated the oath “to tell the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God!”
she became conscious of the concentrated regard of her companions, and
her back stiffened as she seated herself bolt upright in the chair
evidently set aside for the witnesses. She faced the windows, and the
afternoon sunshine, like kindly fingers, touched her quaint snow-white
cap, and gave a tint of red to her waving, curly hair, as her hazel
eyes were calmly lifted to encounter the coroner’s penetrating gaze.

“Are you a native of Washington City, Miss Deane?” he asked, first
giving Deputy Coroner McPherson time to resume his seat and prepare to
take notes.

“I was born in Washington twenty-six years ago,” was the quiet reply.

“Have you resided continuously in Washington?”

“No, sir, not after the death of my parents,” replied Vera. “I went
West, then later studied to be a trained nurse at the University of
Pennsylvania, graduating from there four years ago.”

“How long have you been attending Mr. Craig Porter?”

“A little over three months.”

“And what do your duties comprise?”

“I am night nurse.” Her concise reply won an approving nod from one of
the jurors.

“Were you summoned to nurse Mr. Bruce Brainard when he became ill last
night?”

“I was, sir.”

“Then did you spend the night by his bedside?”

“No, sir.”

“Why not?”

The question shot from the coroner, and Vera’s fingers tightened their
grip on the arm of her chair, but her voice was not raised or ruffled
as she answered slowly:

“Mr. Brainard’s condition was so improved after taking the medicine
prescribed by Dr. Noyes that he did not require my attendance, and I
therefore returned to my customary duties in Mr. Porter’s bedroom.”

“Do the bedrooms occupied by Mr. Porter and Mr. Brainard adjoin each
other?” inquired Coroner Black.

“They do, sir, but there is no communicating door between them.”

“Ah! Then to enter Mr. Brainard’s bedroom from Mr. Porter’s you had to
go into the main hall and from there into Mr. Brainard’s bedroom?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Then while with Mr. Porter you were cut off by a solid wall from
all communication with your other patient?” questioned the coroner,
intently studying a rough sketch of the interior of the house which he
held in his hand.

“Not entirely,” explained Vera quickly. “There is a transom between the
two rooms which remains open, and I would have heard instantly if Mr.
Brainard had called me.”

“Did he call you?” asked the coroner eagerly, and his face fell at her
monosyllabic “No.”

“Did you hear any noise in Mr. Brainard’s bedroom during the night?” he
began, after a pause.

“Not a sound, sir.”

“Did you go in to see how he was during the night?”

“Yes, once, about half past one. Judging from his regular breathing
that Mr. Brainard was sleeping I tiptoed out of the room without
approaching his bed, and resumed my watch in the next room.”

“Was there any light in Mr. Brainard’s room?”

“Yes, I placed a night light on the bed-stand.”

“Did the candle give sufficient light for you to see Mr. Brainard’s
position in bed?” questioned Coroner Black.

“Yes, sir; he lay on his left side with his face turned toward the
door,” answered Vera. “His face was somewhat in shadow as his back was
turned to the bed-table on which the night light stood, but I could see
that his eyes were closed.”

“Was he lying in the same position when you found him dead the next
morning?”

“No.” Vera whitened as the scene of the tragedy flashed before her
mental vision. “Mr. B-Brainard then lay on his back staring straight up
at the ceiling, his head twisted to one side. Oh!” and one hand flew
upward covering her eyes. “I can never forget the expression of his
face--the look of fear--of agony. Gentlemen”--her hand dropping to her
side, while she steadied herself with determined effort--“he must have
suffered horribly--before he died.”

“And you, awake in the next room, heard no sound?” Coroner Black
repeated his former question with quiet persistence.

“I heard no sound,” responded Vera mechanically. “Absolutely no sound.”

A pause followed as Coroner Black fumbled among the papers lying on the
table. When he removed his hand his fingers clutched a razor.

“Have you seen this razor before?” he inquired, offering it to her.

Vera shrank back. “I saw a razor lying on the bed beside Mr. Brainard.
I did not pick it up or examine it closely.”

“You mean that you cannot identify this as the razor which you saw
lying on Mr. Brainard’s bed this morning?”

“Yes,” and there was a change in her tone, too subtle to be detected by
the coroner. She hurried on before he could ask another question: “On
discovering Mr. Brainard’s condition this morning I went for Dr. Noyes,
and as he was not in his room, I hastened to get Mr. Hugh Wyndham.”

“How do you know that Dr. Noyes was not in his room?” demanded Coroner
Black.

Vera looked at him in surprise. “When I received no response to
my repeated raps, I turned the handle of the door and entered his
bedroom--it was empty.”

“Did you meet anyone in the hall on your way to summon Dr. Noyes and
Mr. Wyndham?”

“No, sir, no one.”

Coroner Black rose. “I think that is all, Miss Deane; no, stay, there
is one other point--were you sent for when Mr. Brainard was taken ill
at the dinner table?”

“No. I was not aware of his illness until Dr. Noyes informed me that he
and Mr. Wyndham had assisted a guest, who was suffering from vertigo,
into the spare bedroom, and directed me to administer a dose of
aromatic spirits of ammonia, and to make him comfortable for the night,
and then to return to Mr. Porter.”

Coroner Black referred to his notes before again addressing her.

“Did you observe where Mr. Brainard’s clothes had been placed?” he
asked.

Vera wrinkled her pretty forehead in thought. “I believe they were
lying on the sofa, but I cannot swear to it,” she replied.

“Do you recall seeing the clothes this morning?”

“I do not, sir,” was her prompt reply. “My whole attention was
absorbed by the--the figure on the bed. I was too--too terrified to
observe anything else in the room.”

Coroner Black stared at her intently; her repose of manner and air of
efficiency were at variance with her words. Judging from appearances
she seemed the last person to lose her head in an emergency.

“That is all,” he announced, and covered his abruptness with an
old-fashioned bow as he preceded her to the door. “I thank you, Miss
Deane.”

With a slight inclination of her head to the jurors Vera slipped out of
the room and made haste toward the staircase, but not before she heard
Coroner Black’s low-toned command to the footman to enter the library.

The well-trained servant stood while the oath was being administered to
him, then subsided into the seat indicated and waited patiently for the
coroner to address him.

“State your full name and occupation,” directed the latter, examining
the footman’s intelligent face, somber livery, and general air of
respectability.

“Murray, sir, John Murray,” and the Scotch burr was unmistakable. “I’ve
been second man to Mrs. Porter, sir, for going on seven years.”

“Did you admit Mr. Brainard when he arrived here last night?”

“I did, sir.”

“Did he have a bag or suitcase with him?”

“No, sir.”

“Did you assist Dr. Noyes and Mr. Wyndham in conducting Mr. Brainard to
his bedroom after his attack of illness in the dining-room?”

“No, sir; he could walk with the assistance of the other gentlemen.”

There was silence as Coroner Black referred to his notebook, and his
manner grew stern when he turned back to the witness.

“The butler, Selby, has testified you mentioned to the servants that
you went to the assistance of Mr. Brainard when he was taken ill. Did
you make such a statement?”

“I did, sir; and it is true--I assisted Mr. Brainard when he had his
first attack, sir.”

“Ah, when was that?” and the coroner looked at him with quickened
interest.

“Just after him and Miss Millicent had had words in the garden beyond,”
indicating the windows and the portico. “I was in here arranging the
liqueurs and cigars, sir, when I heard a scream through the partly open
window, and I ran out and found Miss Millicent cowering against one of
the big pillars and saying: ‘No, no!’ between her sobs.” He stopped
abruptly. “I beg your pardon for talking so much.”

“Go on,” commanded Black. “Tell us everything.” The jurors and the
deputy coroner were hanging on the footman’s words.

“Miss Millicent bolted by me into the house, and I was just turning
to follow her when Mr. Brainard appeared out of the darkness--Miss
Millicent had been standing where the light from the library fell on
her,” he explained. “Mr. Brainard staggered toward me, and before I
could reach him, he fell.” Murray cleared his throat and eyed each one
of his expectant hearers; he enjoyed the sensation his testimony was
producing.

“Well, what then?” prompted Coroner Black.

“I picked up Mr. Brainard; no easy matter, sir, for he was a dead
weight”--the footman was not to be hurried--“and I carried him in here,
sir, plumped him down in that chair and gave him a drink of cognac.”

“What appeared to be the matter with him?”

“He said he was dizzy like, and that everything swam before him,”
explained Murray, with careful attention to detail. “He was very red in
the face and shook all over; but the cognac brought him around after a
bit, and, asking me to say nothing of his little upset, he went on into
the drawing-room.”

“Was he in evening clothes?” The foreman of the jury spoke for the
first time and looked somewhat alarmed at the sound of his own voice.

“Surely, sir; it was shortly before dinner was announced. Mr. Brainard
motored out and reached here about half past six.”

“When was dinner served?” inquired Black.

“Eight o’clock, sir.”

“Humph!” The coroner jotted down the figures in his notebook. “Was Mr.
Brainard a frequent caller here?”

“He was, sir, last year, but not recently, sir.” The footman paused
thoughtfully, and then added: “Not since Dr. Noyes has been here.”

Coroner Black wheeled on him sharply. “What do you mean by that
remark?”

“Nothing, sir.” Murray’s eyes opened in astonishment. “I was only
trying to place the last time I’d seen Mr. Brainard here. My master,
Mr. Craig Porter, and Dr. Noyes reached home early in October; yes,
sir, Mr. Brainard hasn’t been here since then, I’m sure.”

The coroner considered the footman in silence for several seconds.

“When did you last see Dr. Noyes?” he asked finally.

“About midnight, sir. I went up to his room to ask if I could do
anything for him. Part of my duties is valeting for Mr. Hugh and Mr.
Craig, and the gentlemen staying in the house,” he added, reading the
unspoken question on the coroner’s lips.

“How did Dr. Noyes appear?” inquired Black.

“Appear?” Murray reflected for a moment. “I can’t answer that, sir,
for I didn’t really see him; the door was opened only a little way,
and I just caught a glimpse of him as he stood before his chiffonier
stropping his razor.”

The coroner and Dr. McPherson exchanged glances.

“Wasn’t that an unusual hour for such an occupation?” asked the former.

“Quite so, sir; but it was this way, sir”--Murray’s words tumbled over
each other in his haste--“the doctor had shaved just before dinner,
and I hadn’t had time to put away his things, and last night when
I apologized for leaving his chiffonier in such disorder, sir, and
offered to come in and straighten up, he told me it was midnight and to
go to bed, that he had already cleaned the razor and put the mug away.”

Coroner Black reached forward and picked up the razor he had shown Vera
Deane.

“Does this razor belong to Dr. Noyes?” he asked.

A dead silence prevailed as Murray took the razor and examined the open
blade with its reddish stains. He shook his head.

“No, sir, it is not Dr. Noyes’ razor.”




CHAPTER IV

MORE TESTIMONY


CORONER BLACK took the razor from the footman and laid it carefully
back on the table.

“You are excused,” he announced, and, as Murray rose with alacrity,
he added, “Inform Mrs. Porter that we will be obliged by her presence
here.”

“Yes, sir; certainly, sir,” and Murray backed from the room, but before
going upstairs to find Mrs. Porter he bolted into the pantry and mopped
his white face which was damp with perspiration, then, refreshing
himself with a glass of port, he went on his belated errand.

Inside the library the jurors whispered to one another, and at a
muttered request the foreman picked up the razor, passed it to his
neighbor, and each man at the table in turn examined the stained blade
and handle with absorbed interest, while the coroner and McPherson
compared notes in an undertone. The opening of the hall door brought
them all to attention, and Mrs. Porter’s entrance was greeted by a
lengthened silence.

Hardly deigning to listen to Coroner Black’s explanation of the
formalities to be gone through, she laid a bejeweled hand on the
Bible presented to her by McPherson, and repeated the oath in an
expressionless monotone.

“Pray be seated, madam,” and Coroner Black pointed to the chair by
which she was standing. “We will not detain you long,” and in rapid
succession he asked her her full name and length of residence in that
vicinity.

“I have spent the summer months here ever since inheriting the property
from my husband’s uncle,” she said, in answer to the latter question.
“This is the first winter that we have kept the house open, but
Dr. Noyes deemed it inadvisable to move my son again, and so--” An
expressive gesture completed the sentence.

“How long has Dr. Noyes been in attendance upon your son?” asked Black.

“He accompanied Craig home from the hospital in France.” Real feeling
betrayed itself in Mrs. Porter’s metallic tones. “My son owes his life
to his skill and his untiring attention. We shall miss him now that he
has returned to England.”

“Ah, then you think Dr. Noyes is on his way back to the front again?”
Black was watching her closely as he toyed with his pencil.

“Certainly. Where else would he go?” glancing disdainfully at him. “No
Englishman nowadays lingers behind when his leave of absence is over.”

“But my dear madam, would Dr. Noyes depart so abruptly--without
bidding you good-by; without the formality of notifying even the
nurses in charge of your son that he would not be back?” asked Black
incredulously.

“Dr. Noyes had been expecting a summons home for over ten days,”
explained Mrs. Porter, in a tone sometimes used to quiet a petulant
child, and Black colored. “He had arranged to have the cable telephoned
out to him; his bag stood packed, and whatever good-bys he had to say
were said to my daughter and myself yesterday.”

“At what hour did this cable reach Dr. Noyes?” demanded Black.

“I presume during the night. He said that he would remain in the
library on the chance of a telephone message coming for him,” was her
glib reply.

Black eyed her sharply. “Who is to attend your son in Dr. Noyes’
absence?” he asked, but if he hoped to trap Mrs. Porter he was
disappointed. Her answer was prompt.

“Dr. Washburn of Alexandria. Dr. Noyes called him in consultation, and
all arrangements were made last week to take over the case.”

Coroner Black considered a moment before again addressing her, and
Mrs. Porter permitted her gaze to wander about, noting inwardly the
disarrangement of the usually orderly room, and she turned back to
the jurors with a distinct air of disapproval. Coroner Black’s next
question caused her to catch her breath sharply.

“Were your daughter and Mr. Bruce Brainard engaged to be married?” he
asked.

“I question your right to ask that,” she retorted. “My family affairs
had nothing to do with Mr. Brainard’s shocking suicide.”

“We are the best judges of that, madam,” replied Black quietly. “It is
our duty to expedite this inquiry, and to do so we must know whether
or not Mr. Brainard was on friendly terms with each member of this
household on the night of his death--”

“He was, sir, otherwise he would not have been my guest,” broke in Mrs.
Porter.

“Did you invite him to spend the night, or only to dine with you?”

“I simply asked him to dinner.” She paused, then added: “He was taken
ill at the dinner table, and my nephew, Mr. Wyndham, and Dr. Noyes
helped him upstairs and put him to bed in one of the spare bedrooms.
Dr. Noyes said that Mr. Brainard was in no condition to motor in to
Washington last night.”

“When did you last see Mr. Brainard?”

“When he left the dining-room.”

Black looked at her attentively and noted the flush which had mounted
to her pale cheeks during their colloquy.

“I must remind you, madam,” he commenced, and his manner was serious,
“that you have not answered my question regarding the relationship
existing between your daughter and Mr. Brainard.”

“They were friends,” curtly.

“Nothing more?” persisted the coroner.

Mrs. Porter regarded him with no friendly eye, then apparently thinking
better of her brusqueness, answered more courteously:

“Mr. Brainard admired my daughter greatly, and paid her the compliment
of asking my consent to their marriage.”

“Did you give your consent?” prompted Black as she stopped.

“He was to have had my answer this morning.”

“Oh!” The coroner gazed blankly at Mrs. Porter, failing utterly to
appreciate her stately beauty and quietly gowned, modish figure. She
was a remarkably well preserved woman, on whose face time had left few
wrinkles, and she looked much younger than she was. Several seconds
elapsed before Black again addressed her.

“Did your daughter reciprocate Mr. Brainard’s affection?”

“My daughter would not have accepted his attention had she not liked
and admired him,” she responded evasively, and Black lost all patience.

“Kindly give a direct answer to my question,” he exclaimed harshly.
“Were your daughter and Mr. Brainard engaged?”

“I believe there was an understanding to that effect,” she admitted
sullenly. “But until I gave my consent”--a shrug completed the
sentence, and Black instantly asked:

“Why did you withhold your consent, madam?”

“You are laboring under a mistaken idea,” replied Mrs. Porter coldly.
“My consent was only asked yesterday, and I very properly told Mr.
Brainard that I needed a night in which to think it over.”

The coroner stroked his chin as he contemplated Mrs. Porter, then
observing the jurors’ air of interest, asked more briskly: “When did
you make Mr. Brainard’s acquaintance?”

“About a year ago, and until he went to South America he was a frequent
visitor at my house.” Mrs. Porter glanced involuntarily at the clock as
it chimed the hour, and the coroner rose.

“Please give me the names of your dinner guests,” he said, picking up a
pencil and drawing a pad toward him.

“Captain and Mrs. Mark Willert, Miss Margaret Spencer, my daughter
Millicent, my nephew, Mr. Hugh Wyndham, Dr. Noyes, Mr. Brainard--let me
see, that makes eight,” checking them off on her finger. “I have a few
intimate friends in to dinner every week on Millicent’s account. I do
not want her brother’s distressing illness to cast too great a shadow
on my daughter’s young life.”

“Is your son improving?”

“Yes, thank God!” Mrs. Porter’s eyes shone with a softer light and her
voice shook. “Dr. Noyes and time will work wonders in his condition.
I”--she paused and steadied her voice--“I have every confidence in Dr.
Noyes.”

Coroner Black bowed. “We will not keep you longer, madam; but before
you leave kindly examine this razor and tell us if you can identify it.”

“I will look at it, certainly.” It took her a second or two to
disentangle her lorgnette chain from a tassel on her gown, then raising
her glasses she stared at the blood-stained article. “To the best of my
knowledge I have not seen it before,” she announced, rising, and at a
sign from the coroner retreated toward the hall door, hardly responding
to the foreman’s curt nod.

Bidding her a courteous good afternoon, Coroner Black opened the door
and waited for her to pass into the hall, then stepped after her in
time to see her pause and draw back into an alcove as Dr. Beverly
Thorne approached them. If Dr. Thorne observed the latent air of
hostility and discourtesy in her bearing there was no indication of it
in his unruffled manner as he greeted the coroner.

“Sorry to be late, Black,” he said. “But an important case--” as
he spoke he removed his overcoat and handed it and his hat to the
attentive footman. “Do you wish me to testify now?”

“No. I want you here in your capacity of ‘J. P.,’” responded the
coroner. “In other words, look, listen and--note.” The last word was
added as he held the library door ajar before throwing it wide open.
“Murray, request Mr. Hugh Wyndham to come to the library.”

Thorne exchanged a low-toned word with McPherson and several of the
jurors before slipping into a large wing chair which partly concealed
his presence. Hugh Wyndham had evidently been awaiting the summons, for
he followed hard upon the heels of the footman and stepped briskly
into the library. The preliminaries were quickly gone through with, and
Wyndham, while waiting for the coroner to question him, occupied his
time in inspecting his companions, and his eyes contracted slightly
at sight of Beverly Thorne, who sat gazing idly at the log fire which
blazed in the stone fireplace, and added greatly to the picturesqueness
and comfort of the well proportioned room.

“State your full name and occupation, Mr. Wyndham,” requested the
coroner, resuming his seat.

“Hugh Wyndham, stock broker, just now not connected with any firm,”
he added by way of explanation. “Since the failure in November of the
banking house of Mullen Company with which I was connected I have been
residing with my aunt, Mrs. Lawrence Porter.”

“Were you and Mr. Brainard old friends, Mr. Wyndham?”

“We have known each other for over a year, but were acquaintances
rather than friends,” replied Wyndham, flicking a white thread from his
coat sleeve.

Black shot a questioning look at him. “Do I understand that you were
not friends?” he asked.

“Oh, we were friendly enough on the few occasions that we met, but our
professions gave us very few opportunities to become better acquainted.”

“What was Mr. Brainard’s occupation?”

“He was a mining engineer.”

The coroner leaned over and consulted Dr. McPherson’s notes, then,
sitting back in his chair, asked: “Did Mr. Brainard complain of feeling
ill before dinner last night?”

“No, except to tell Captain Willert and myself that the climate in
South America had played the devil with him.”

“Were you present at the dinner table when he was taken ill last night?”

“Yes. Dr. Noyes said that he was suffering from vertigo, and Mrs.
Porter suggested that we take him upstairs and put him to bed.”

Again Coroner Black referred to McPherson’s notes before asking another
question.

“Did Mr. Brainard have any suitcase or luggage with him?” he inquired.

“No. I loaned him a pair of my pyjamas.”

“When did you last see Mr. Brainard alive?”

“I left him in bed, apparently better, and followed Dr. Noyes
downstairs.”

“Leaving no one with the sick man?” asked Black swiftly.

“Yes, Miss Deane,” responded Wyndham. “Dr. Noyes sent her to look
after Brainard. Miss Deane said that she would be within call if he
needed assistance during the night.” He hesitated, and then added,
“I volunteered to sit up with Brainard, but she said that it was not
necessary.”

“Were you disturbed by noises during the night?”

“No.” Wyndham shifted his position, and one foot tapped the floor
incessantly. “I am a heavy sleeper and my room is some distance from
that occupied by Brainard.”

“You were asleep when Miss Deane rapped at your door this morning?”

“Yes.”

“You accompanied her to Mr. Brainard’s bedroom?”

“I did.”

“Describe the condition in which you found Mr. Brainard and his
bedroom,” directed Black, polishing his eyeglasses, and replacing them
to scrutinize the witness more closely.

“I found Brainard lying on his back on the right side of his bed.”
Wyndham stopped and moistened his lips. “His throat was cut and the
wound had bled profusely.”

“Did you find any weapon in the room?”

“An open blood-stained razor was lying on the bed beside Brainard.”

“Did you touch it?”

“No.”

“Mr. Wyndham,” Coroner Black spoke slowly, evidently weighing his
words, “did you loan a razor as well as a pair of pyjamas to Mr.
Brainard?”

“I did not,” came the instant and emphatic denial.

“Then, if you did not give him the razor, how did Mr. Brainard secure
possession of the razor which you saw on his bed?” asked Black. “You,
and other witnesses, have testified that Mr. Brainard brought no
luggage with him and did not come prepared to spend the night.”

“I have puzzled over his possessing a razor,” agreed Wyndham. “Then it
occurred to me that perhaps he brought it with him from town intending
to commit suicide on the way home.”

“An ingenious theory,” acknowledged Black. “But why should Mr. Brainard
plan to commit suicide when his engagement to a beautiful and wealthy
girl was about to be announced?”

“Mr. Brainard’s ill health may have unbalanced his mind.”

“Did Mr. Brainard show symptoms of insanity last night?” asked Black
quietly.

“N-no.” Wyndham thought a minute, then glanced at the coroner. “The
attack of vertigo”--he began and stopped as Coroner Black smiled and
shook his head.

“Mr. Wyndham”--Black turned abruptly and produced the razor--“have you
seen this before?”

Wyndham took it from him gingerly. “It resembles the one I saw lying on
the bed close by Brainard’s left hand,” he said at last.

“It is the same one,” announced Black shortly. “Had you ever seen this
razor before finding it on Brainard’s bed this morning?”

“No.” Wyndham examined it with care and then held up the razor so that
all could see it. “It evidently belongs to a set, one to be used every
day in the week--this particular razor is marked Monday--”

“And today is Tuesday,” commented the foreman of the jury. The juror
nearest him nudged him to be quiet, and the coroner resumed his
examination.

“To your knowledge, Mr. Wyndham, does anyone in this household own a
set of razors such as you describe?” he demanded.

“No.” Wyndham’s monosyllable rang out emphatically and his eyes met the
coroner’s squarely. “Personally, I use an ordinary razor. Can I send
for it?”

“Certainly,” and the coroner turned to McPherson, who rose.

“You will find my razor in the top drawer of my bureau; Murray, the
footman, will show you my room,” explained Wyndham. “At the same time
Murray can get the razor belonging to my cousin, Craig Porter. The
footman shaves him,” he supplemented, “using a Gillett safety razor.”

“The footman is waiting in the hall,” added Coroner Black, and, barely
waiting for the closing of the library door behind McPherson, he asked:
“Was Mr. Brainard left-handed?”

“I don’t think so.” Wyndham considered the question. “No, I am sure
that he was not. Once or twice I have played billiards with him, and I
would certainly have observed any such peculiarity.”

A sudden movement on the part of Beverly Thorne brought the coroner’s
attention to him.

“Do you care to question the witness, doctor?” he inquired and, as
Thorne nodded, he explained hurriedly to Wyndham, whose brow had
darkened ominously: “Dr. Thorne is a justice of the peace and is here
to assist in this investigation at my request,” with quiet emphasis on
the last words, and Wyndham thought better of hot-tempered objections.
Thorne rose and approached the center table before speaking.

“Mr. Wyndham,” he began, “did you telephone into town that Mr. Brainard
was ill and would spend the night in this house?”

“No,” answered Wyndham, and his tone was of the curtest.

“To your knowledge did anyone else in this house telephone Brainard’s
condition to friends in Washington?”

“I did not hear of it if they did.”

“Then no one, outside this household, knew that Brainard was spending
the night here?”

Wyndham moved impatiently. “You forget Mrs. Porter had other dinner
guests last night,” he said stiffly. “They knew of his illness and his
presence here.”

“True,” broke in the coroner. “Mrs. Porter has already furnished me
with their names, and--” But before he could add more Thorne interposed
with a question.

“How about Brainard’s chauffeur?”

“He had none, but drove his own car,” responded Wyndham.

“Is that still here?”

“I believe so. Sims, Mrs. Porter’s chauffeur, reported it was in the
garage this morning.”

At that moment the door opened to admit McPherson, who advanced
somewhat short of breath from hurrying, and laid an ordinary razor and
a Gillett “safety” on the center table.

“The first razor I found in Mr. Wyndham’s bureau,” he announced. “The
second was handed to me by Miss Deane.” He stopped to resume his seat,
then continued more slowly: “The nurse showed me where Mr. Porter’s
shaving things are kept in the bathroom between his bedroom and that
occupied by the nurses.”

“Thanks, McPherson.” Coroner Black replaced the blood-stained razor on
the table beside the others. “You are excused, Mr. Wyndham.”

Wyndham bowed and stepped past Thorne; at the door he hesitated, but,
catching Thorne’s eyes, he turned and left the room without speaking.

“McPherson, will you take the stand?” directed Black, and the deputy
coroner sat down in the chair reserved for the witnesses, after first
having the oath administered to him. “You performed the autopsy on Mr.
Brainard?” asked Black a few seconds later.

“I did.” McPherson displayed an anatomical chart, and used his pencil
as an indicator while he continued: “I found an incipient tumor of the
brain. Brainard’s attacks of vertigo were due to that.” The deputy
coroner raised his voice as his pencil traveled down the chart and
rested on the throat. “The wound was on the lower part of Brainard’s
neck and the carotid artery was severed. He bled to death.”

“Was the wound self-inflicted, doctor?” questioned Thorne, taking the
chart and examining it closely before passing it over to the juror
nearest him.

McPherson shook his head at Thorne’s question. “I do not believe the
wound was self-inflicted,” he said, “for the wound commences under the
right ear and extends toward the left; whereas, in the case of suicide
the cut would have been made just the reverse.”

McPherson’s words were listened to with deep attention, and in the
silence that followed Thorne grew conscious of the loud ticking of the
clock.

“Then in your opinion, McPherson,” commented Coroner Black, “Bruce
Brainard was murdered?”

“Yes,” answered the deputy coroner. “The nature of the wound proves
conclusively that it could not have been suicide.”

“Unless,” broke in Thorne, “unless Brainard was left-handed.”

“That point can be easily settled,” snapped the coroner. “That’s all,
McPherson, thank you;” and as the doctor left the witness chair he
added, “Kindly ask Detective Mitchell to step here.”

It was growing darker in the room and Thorne walked over to the windows
and pushed back the long curtains and pulled up the Holland shades.
The sunshine had almost totally disappeared, and the gray of late
afternoon alone lighted the room. Thorne moved over to one of the
lamps which were dotted about, and was busy lighting it when Detective
Mitchell followed McPherson back into the room.

“Have you discovered which servants own razors in this house,
Mitchell?” asked the coroner, after the new witness had answered other
questions.

“Yes, sir.” Mitchell took two razors from his pocket. “I have them each
ticketed; this one belongs to the footman, Murray, and this to the
butler, Selby.”

The coroner accepted the two razors and compared them with the
blood-stained one on the table, then he passed all three to the jurors.

“They are not in the least alike,” he said thoughtfully. “Did you
examine Dr. Noyes’ bedroom, Mitchell?”

“I did,” answered the detective. “The bed had evidently been slept in,
as the sheets and blankets were tumbled about, but all the doctor’s
clothes were packed in his steamer trunk.”

“Was his trunk locked?”

“No, sir.” Mitchell paused. “I examined its contents, but I could not
find any razor or strop.”

“Were his overcoat and hat in his closet?”

“No, nor downstairs in the coat closet,” was Mitchell’s prompt
response. “I questioned all the servants and Mrs. Porter, and they say
that Dr. Noyes owned a large grip with his initials--it is missing, and
I conclude that he has taken it with him, for Murray declares that some
underclothes and one suit of clothes are missing.”

“I see.” Coroner Black frowned, then glanced toward Thorne, and the
latter addressed the detective.

“Have you found any trace of burglars breaking into the house last
night, Mitchell?”

“No. And I examined the ground about this house very thoroughly, as
well as every window catch and keyhole; none have been tampered with.
The servants declare they were securely locked last night, and found in
the same condition this morning.”

Thorne laid aside the pencil he had been twisting about in his fingers
and pointed to the blood-stained razor.

“Did you find finger marks on this razor?”

“No, none.” Mitchell looked glum. “We tested every article in Mr.
Brainard’s bedroom and could not find a trace of finger prints.”

Thorne turned back to Coroner Black. “I have no further questions to
ask the witness,” and the coroner dismissed Mitchell.

“As you go out, Mitchell,” he added, “please send word to Miss
Millicent Porter that I would like to see her here.”

By the time the hall door again opened every lamp the room boasted was
lit, and Millicent Porter paused just within the library to accustom
herself to the sudden glare. Thorne and the jurors noted the lines
of care on her white face and the dark circles under her eyes, and
as Thorne approached her he muttered under his breath, in subdued
admiration, “What an exquisite child!” She seemed little more in her
simple dark dress, and her beauty was of the ethereal type.

“We won’t keep you here very long, Miss Porter.” Coroner Black bustled
forward and, snatching up a cushion from the sofa, placed it in the
witness chair. “You will be more comfortable so.” She smiled her
thanks, looking up at him timidly. “Now, if you will rise for a
second Dr. McPherson will--there,” soothingly, observing her startled
expression. “Just repeat the oath after McPherson and place your hand
on the Bible--so. Now sit right here. Kindly tell the jurors your full
name--”

“Millicent Porter.”

“And how long have you known Mr. Brainard, Miss Porter?”

“A little over a year.” She spoke with an effort and several of the
jurors hitched their chairs nearer so as not to miss a word she said.

“And when did you become engaged to him?” inquired Coroner Black.

Millicent flushed scarlet. “I--I--” she stumbled badly. “We were--it
was--” Then in an indignant rush, “My private affairs do not concern
you; I decline to answer impertinent questions.”

Coroner Black bowed and adjusted his eyeglasses, and to the
disappointment of a number of the jurors he did not press the point.

“Why did you and Mr. Brainard quarrel last night?” he asked.

“Quarrel?” Millicent stared at him, then laughed a bit unsteadily.
“Mr. Brainard and I quarrel--what nonsense! Who put such an idea in
your head, sir?”

“Your footman, Murray, has testified that he overheard you exclaim,
‘No! No!’ on the portico there,” pointing to the long windows. “And
after you had dashed by him into the house Murray found Mr. Brainard
lying overcome on the ground.”

Millicent never removed her eyes from the coroner; she seemed drinking
in his words, half unable to believe them.

“Murray saw us?” she stammered, half to herself. “I had no idea others
were about.” Abruptly she checked her hasty speech, and her determined
chin set in obstinate lines. “Apparently you know everything that
transpired last night. Then why question me?” she demanded.

“We do not know everything,” replied Coroner Black patiently. “For
instance, we do not know who murdered Bruce Brainard.”

His words struck home. She reeled in her seat, and but for Thorne’s
supporting arm would have fallen to the floor.

“Murdered!” she gasped. “Murdered? You must be mistaken.”

“Unfortunately, Miss Porter, the medical evidence proves conclusively
that it was murder and not suicide. Now,” continued Black, eying her
watchfully, “we want your aid in tracking the murderer--”

“I know nothing--_nothing_!” she burst in passionately. “I never saw
Mr. Brainard again after he went upstairs; I slept soundly all last
night, and heard nothing.”

“Even if you know nothing about the happenings last night, perhaps you
can still tell us something which may prove a clue,” began Black, and
his manner grew more earnest. “Did Mr. Brainard ever tell you that he
had enemies?”

“No.”

“Did he ever mention that his life had been threatened?” persisted
Black.

“No.” Millicent was white to the lips, and she held out her hands
pleadingly. “Indeed, gentlemen, I cannot help you--why ask me questions
that I cannot answer?”

The big, raw-boned foreman of the jury met her eyes and moved
awkwardly, but before he could think what to say Coroner Black again
addressed her.

“There are certain formalities to be gone through, Miss Porter.”
As he spoke he walked over to the center table and picked up the
blood-stained razor, holding it directly under the rays of the nearest
lamp. “Kindly look at this razor and tell us if you know to whom it
belongs.”

If the razor had been Medusa’s head it could have held no more deadly
fascination for Millicent. She sat as if carved from stone. Coroner
Black repeated his question once, and then again--still no response.

Beverly Thorne broke the tense stillness.

“Did Dr. Noyes bid you good-by before departing, Miss Porter?” he asked.

Galvanized into action, Millicent sprang from her seat, and, before
anyone guessed her intention or any hand could stay her, she dashed
from the library.

Coroner Black made a hasty step toward the door, but Thorne detained
him.

“Suppose you sum up the case to the jury,” he suggested, and resumed
his seat.




CHAPTER V

DOROTHY DEANE, “SOCIETY EDITOR”


“GOOD AFTERNOON, Mr. Williams.” The managing editor of the Washington
_Tribune_ twisted about in his revolving-chair, and his frown changed
into a smile of welcome at sight of his society editor standing in
the doorway, a roll of soiled copy clutched in one hand, while a much
blue-penciled daily newspaper dangled from the other.

“Come in, Miss Deane,” he said, pointing toward a chair by his desk.
“How are you feeling today after last night’s gayety at the White
House?”

“Rather wintry, thank you.” A twinkle in Dorothy Deane’s eyes belied
her serious expression. “Your compositors spoiled my beauty sleep.”

“What’s their latest offense?”

“This--” She spread the morning newspaper before him, and pointed to a
paragraph in the middle of the second column, beneath the sub-heading:
“Beauty at the White House.” The sentence read: “Mrs. Anson Smith, wife
of Senator-elect Smith, wore a handsome string of pearls.”

“Beauty unadorned,” quoted the managing editor dryly. “Your description
would fit nine out of ten women of the ultra-smart set of today.”

“But it is not my description,” retorted Dorothy hotly. “Here’s my
copy, perfectly legible,” displaying it. “The compositors simply did
not set up the remainder of the sentence. If you could have heard Mr.
Smith’s language to me on the telephone this morning--”

“The irate husband, eh!” Williams laughed unsympathetically. “Mrs.
Smith must have had a gown made especially for the occasion--”

“She did, and sent me a full description of it yesterday--”

“And it did not get published--ah, take it from me, Miss Deane,
_that’s_ where the shoe pinched.”

“Possibly; but that doesn’t excuse the blunder in the composing-room or
the stupidity of the men on the copy desk,” declared Dorothy. “I have
to stand for their mistakes.”

Williams frowned, then smiled. “They will read your copy more carefully
in the future, I promise you,” he said. “I never saw you angry before,
Miss Deane; now you look like the picture I have of you.”

“Picture?” Dorothy’s blue eyes opened to their widest extent. “_You_
have a picture of me?”

“Your emphasis is not very flattering,” responded Williams, chuckling.
“Our staff photographer snapped you and your sister one day last
autumn, and I found the boys were going to run the picture in a Sunday
supplement to surprise you. I didn’t think you’d like it, so took
it away from them.” As he spoke he opened a drawer of his desk and,
tumbling its contents about, finally pulled out a photograph. “I meant
to have given it to you before.”

“Thanks,” and Dorothy glanced at the photograph with interest as she
took it.

“What were you two squabbling about?” demanded Williams, staring at the
photograph. “Your sister looks a veritable Lady Macbeth.”

“Oh, she doesn’t approve of my spendthrift ways,” answered Dorothy
lightly. “Vera says I never will learn by experience,” and an
involuntary sigh escaped her.

“It’s a shame she lectured you in public,” grumbled Williams, whose
friendly interest in Dorothy’s career had already smoothed many rough
places.

“Oh, I don’t know--couldn’t find a more convenient place than the steps
of the Emergency Hospital to receive the _coup de grâce_,” laughed
Dorothy. “And Vera doesn’t mean half she says.”

“By the way, didn’t you once tell me that your sister was nursing Craig
Porter at their country place in Virginia?”

“Yes, she is.”

Williams gazed at her with quickened interest. “Seen the afternoon
papers?” he asked.

“No, I haven’t had time.” The imperative ring of the telephone
interrupted her, and Williams, waving an impatient hand in farewell,
jerked the desk telephone toward him.

Still holding her photograph, but leaving her copy and the morning
paper behind on the desk, Dorothy closed the door of the private
office, made her way through the city room, borrowed an afternoon
newspaper from several lying on the city editor’s desk, and disappeared
into the small room set aside for her exclusive use. She was some
minutes placing her hat, coat, and handbag on their accustomed peg,
then ensconcing herself before her desk she sorted her mail; that done,
she picked up the photograph given her by the managing editor and
studied it more closely.

The photograph was, like many an unposed snapshot, a good likeness;
too good, she thought, noting her sister’s determined expression and
her own rebellious countenance. For all her jesting with the managing
editor, the conversation she and Vera had had that autumn afternoon
lingered in her memory with a bitter flavor; remarks had been made
which neither could forget.

Dorothy turned over the photograph and read with a wry smile the
“legend” pasted there:

  Two members of famous family adopt professions--Left to right, Miss
  Vera and Miss Dorothy Deane, daughters of the late distinguished
  jurist, Stephen Deane, Chief Justice of the District Court of
  Appeals, desert the ballroom and pink teas for professional life.
  Miss Vera Deane is a graduate trained nurse, while her younger sister
  has found her _métier_ as a journalist, and ably conducts the society
  section of the _Morning Tribune_.

Tossing aside the photograph, Dorothy picked up the afternoon newspaper
and was about to turn to the society page when she stopped, her
attention arrested by a display heading:

  BRUCE BRAINARD A SUICIDE

  KILLS HIMSELF AT PORTER HOMESTEAD

The lines beneath were meager as to details, but Dorothy absorbed the
printed words a dozen times before their whole meaning dawned upon
her. At the end she drew a long, long breath. Bruce Brainard! His
very name conjured up scenes she had prayed to forget; and now he was
dead, a suicide. She raised her hands to her throbbing temples and
burst into uncontrollable, hysterical laughter. Truly the Fates had
a perverted sense of humor--to bring Bruce Brainard, Vera, and Hugh
Wyndham together for a final meeting! Suddenly her laughter changed to
tears, and noiseless sobs shook and racked her slender body until she
sank back in her chair exhausted with emotion. She was regaining some
hold on her customary composure when the insistent clamor of her desk
telephone effectually aroused her.

“Hello! Yes,” she called into the instrument, steadying her voice.
“Society editor, yes; no, we don’t take engagements over the ’phone--
No, we can’t break the rule; sorry, but you will have to send it in
signed, or bring the news in person. Good-by,” and she rang off.

Her right hand instinctively sought her assignment book; the telephone
message had brought her back to the everyday routine; she could not
permit her thoughts to wander afield; but first there was one thing she
must do, and she again turned to the telephone. It was some minutes
before she got the toll station, and there she met disappointment--the
telephone at the Porter homestead had been temporarily disconnected;
she could not talk to her sister.

But why had not Vera telephoned her? The question worried her as she
turned the pages of her book, searching for the entries falling on that
date. Then she recalled that, after her talk with the indignant Mr.
Anson Smith that morning, she had covered her ears with the bedclothes
and gone comfortably to sleep, letting the telephone ring itself out.
The fact that she had been up all night “covering” the White House
entertainment and had crawled into bed at twenty minutes past five in
the morning did not, at the moment, seem an adequate excuse for having
neglected the telephone--she had deliberately but unintentionally cut
herself off from communication with Vera, and bitter tears came to her
eyes at the thought. Vera might be needing her at that very moment! The
thought was not quieting, and she had reached for her hat when again
the telephone broke the silence.

“What is it?” she demanded, and her voice sounded shrill even in her
own ears.

“Society editor,” came a woman’s voice over the wire. “Please look in
the Congressional Directory and tell me if Mr. John Graham is still a
representative.”

“What state is he from?” questioned Dorothy.

“I don’t recollect,” was the reply, and with a subdued, “Wait a
moment,” Dorothy set down the receiver and feverishly turned the pages
of the Congressional Directory until she reached the index and ran
down the list of names. “There’s no John Graham in the book,” she
shouted into the telephone a second later.

“Sure you have the last edition? Thanks.”

Dorothy put back the receiver with a relieved sigh. A glance at her
wrist watch showed her that it was already a quarter of five--and the
foreman was waiting for early copy. There was no time to hunt up Vera,
and with her nerves on edge she turned to her list of assignments and
telephoned to first one hostess and then another, getting dinner and
lunch lists until she had a formidable number before her. But one
hostess remained uncalled, and with renewed zeal she resorted to the
telephone again.

“This is Miss Deane, society editor, _Morning Tribune_,” she explained.
“I will be greatly obliged if you will give the names of your dinner
guests tonight for tomorrow’s paper.”

“I give dinners to my friends, not for the newspapers,” came the frigid
reply, and Dorothy heard the bang of the telephone receiver at the
other end of the wire.

“Waugh!” she exclaimed aloud, turning back to her typewriter. “So Mrs.
Purse thinks she has arrived--and last year she was sending in her
own dinner lists to the newspapers, as well as the names of guests at
entertainments to which she was invited.”

Dorothy’s skilled fingers flew over the typewriter as her active
brain put in fitting phrases the information she had secured over the
telephone, and later, in some instances, she rewrote the important
social events chronicled in the evening newspapers. She had almost
completed her task when the door opened and the office boy ushered in a
much-talked-about divorcée whose career had provided entertainment for
staid Washingtonians.

Dorothy was a favorite of hers and she greeted her warmly. “No, I can’t
sit and gossip,” she announced, standing by the partly open door. “I
only came to bring you this data about our dramatic club,” laying a
folded manuscript on the desk perilously near the paste pot. “Dress
it up in your own style, Dorothy. I congratulate you on your society
column; it’s the best in town.”

“Indeed,” and Dorothy flushed with pleasure. “I did not think you would
ever bother to read it.”

“I always read the social news to keep track of the entertainments to
which I am not bidden given by women who owe me invitations.” A faint
hardness crept into her voice, and was gone instantly as she bade
Dorothy a cordial good-by and departed.

Rewriting the dramatic club article proved more of a task than Dorothy
had bargained for; thoughts of Vera, of Bruce Brainard, and last--of
Hugh Wyndham, projected themselves before the typed words, and in
desperation she seized the scissors and, shortening the manuscript, she
pasted the remainder on her copy paper. She was busy marking her copy
when the telephone bell called her back to the instrument.

“Good evening, Miss Deane,” said a soft, purring voice, which Dorothy
instantly recognized as belonging to a well-known society belle, who
had seen more seasons than she was willing to admit. “For particular
reasons I am anxious to attend the breakfast tomorrow which the
Japanese Ambassador is giving. Can’t you use your influence to get me
an invitation?”

“But I have no influence in that quarter,” protested Dorothy. “The
invitations are strictly limited to members of the Cabinet and their
wives.”

“Oh! Don’t you know any way by which I can procure an invitation?”

“I see no way for you to be eligible for an invitation unless you can
marry the Attorney General, the only bachelor in the Cabinet circle,
before ten o’clock,” retorted Dorothy, her sense of fun getting the
better of discretion. A faint “Oh!” preceded the hanging up of the
opposite receiver, and Dorothy went back to her work. But she was again
doomed to interruption, and this time she answered the telephone with a
wrathful, “Well, what is it?”

“Mrs. Marvin, Dorothy,” sounded a cheerful voice. “I want you to
take down this list of patronesses for our charity ball. Get your
pencil--there are one hundred names.”

“Oh, Mrs. Marvin!” gasped Dorothy. “Can’t you send them into the
office? I’ll pay the messenger.”

“I haven’t time to write them out,” declared Mrs. Marvin firmly, and
Dorothy jabbed her pencil with vicious force into the pad as she
started to take down the names. “Hello, don’t ring off,” called Mrs.
Marvin at the end of five minutes. “Remember, Dorothy, those names
must appear in tomorrow’s paper, and be sure and give us an excellent
send-off; it’s for charity, you know.”

“Yes, yes, good-by,” and, dropping the receiver, Dorothy rubbed her
aching ear and stiff arm.

  “Taking one consideration with another, with another,
    A policeman’s life is not a happy one--”

chanted a voice from the door, and, glancing up, Dorothy saw one of
the reporters watching her. “Cheer up, Miss Deane,” he said, advancing
farther into the room. “You haven’t been standing on the ‘sacred soil’
of Virginia for hours in a biting east wind, watching a front door for
news. I’m frozen inside and out,” blowing on his hands as he spoke.
“But, oh, it’s a big story--”

At the mention of Virginia, Dorothy had glanced at him eagerly, but the
question burning her lips was checked by the telephone’s loud call.

“Do answer it for me,” she begged, sitting down at her typewriter.
“Say I’m busy,” in frenzied desperation; “say I’m dead!” And paying no
further attention to her companion she commenced her story about the
charity ball. Tom Seaton’s voice interrupted her.

“The lady wants to know if she can give a dance on January 20th without
butting in on a dozen parties that night,” he explained, hugging the
receiver against his chest.

Dorothy hunted up the date in her assignment book, and slammed it shut
with vigor.

“Tell her there are only seven dinners scheduled so far for that
night,” she directed, and in the moment’s respite she copied off the
names of the charity ball patronesses. She had completed her task when
Seaton replaced the telephone, and straddled the only other chair in
the room.

Usually Dorothy did not encourage loiterers, and had sometimes given
offense by her abrupt refusal to stand around and gossip; but she was
never too busy to listen to a hard-luck story, and her ready sympathy
for human frailty had gained her a warm place in the regard of her
happy-go-lucky co-workers on the paper.

“Have you been out to the Porter homestead?” she inquired, handing her
mass of corrected copy to a begrimed messenger from the composing-room
who appeared at that instant.

“I have; and I can’t speak highly of the hospitable instincts of the
owners of Dewdrop Inn,” answered Seaton. “This little ‘dewdrop’ was
positively congealed while waiting for the inquest to adjourn.”

“An inquest!” echoed Dorothy. “Did they hold it so soon?”

“They did, and never had the decency to let us in. Every paper was
represented, and we had to cool our heels until the coroner came out
and announced--”

“Miss Deane”--the office boy poked his head inside the door--“the
‘boss’ wants ye.”

“In a minute.” Dorothy rose and turned breathlessly to Seaton. “What
did the coroner announce?”

“He said that evidence, brought out at the inquest, proved conclusively
that Bruce Brainard was murdered, and--”

Murdered! Dorothy stared at him aghast. Dimly she realized that he
was still speaking, but his words were meaningless. Bruce Brainard
murdered--and under the same roof with her sister, Vera--and Hugh
Wyndham! Something snapped inside her brain; she felt herself going,
and threw out her hands hopelessly--

“Hully gee! Help, boys!” roared Seaton, bending over her. “She’s
fainted.”




CHAPTER VI

THE WALL BETWEEN


VERA DEANE scanned the handsomely appointed dinner table and its vacant
places with mixed feelings, and Murray, hovering solicitously behind
her chair, answered her unspoken thought.

“Mrs. Porter and Miss Millicent are taking dinner in their boudoir,” he
explained. “Selby is serving them, and Mrs. Porter gave most particular
orders that you should have a good dinner, Miss Deane.”

“I don’t believe I can eat,” protested Vera, declining bread and
butter. “I have no appetite tonight.”

“Just try this soup, miss,” coaxed Murray. “It’s one of cook’s
specialties. And you know, miss,” added Murray artfully, setting the
plate with its smoking contents before her, “what with one thing and
another, they’ve given you no rest today, and Dr. Noyes always said
humans must eat to keep their machinery going.”

“Quite true,” smiled Vera. Murray was a favorite of hers, and his
extreme loquaciousness often amused her. The footman was too well
trained to overstep the gulf lying between their positions; he had
been told off to wait upon the nurses and assist them in their care of
Craig Porter on the latter’s arrival from France, and, having a natural
aptitude for caring for the sick, they found him extremely useful.

Vera had not been slow in discovering Murray’s one hobby, a hobby
which, seven years before, had almost cost him his place, Mrs. Porter
not having taken kindly to his lugubrious countenance and depressed
manner when waiting upon the table. She expressed her feelings to his
former employer, a friend of long standing, who responded impressively:
“My dear, Murray’s an excellent servant, with one little weakness--his
health. The more certain he is that he suffers from a mortal disease,
the more enjoyment he gets out of life. Just ask him now and then,
‘Murray, how are you feeling?’ and he will be your slave.”

Mrs. Porter had promptly followed the advice, and whenever she found
the footman looking preternaturally solemn had cheered him immensely
by inquiring for his health. Both Nurse Hall and Vera Deane had quickly
discovered his hobby, and the younger nurse had advanced in his esteem
by listening patiently to descriptions of every new symptom his fancy
conjured up. The fact that he failed lamentably in the proper use of
medical and anatomical terms never disturbed him--his last confidence
to Dr. Noyes having been that he was suffering from inflammation of the
semicolon.

Vera found Murray’s opinion of the excellence of the soup justified,
and ate the remainder of the dinner with more zest than she had
imagined possible an hour before. The relief of being alone was an
additional fillip to her jaded nerves. Upon being excused from the
inquest that afternoon she had gone at once to the branch telephone
in Mrs. Porter’s boudoir, only to find that the instrument had been
disconnected and that she could not communicate with her sister
Dorothy. She had then returned to Craig Porter’s bedroom, and in trying
to satisfy Mrs. Hall’s insatiable curiosity as to what had transpired
at the inquest she had had no time to herself before dinner was
announced.

“No coffee tonight, Murray,” she said, pushing back her chair. “I am
going upstairs to Mr. Porter, so that Mrs. Hall can have her dinner
immediately.”

“Mrs. Hall had tea earlier in the afternoon,” was Murray’s unexpected
response. “She told me that Mrs. Porter had given her permission to
spend the night in Washington.”

“Oh!” Vera’s expression was blank. “Is Mrs. Porter sending her into
town?”

“No, miss; Mr. Hugh took the car just after the inquest adjourned and
hasn’t returned yet. I hear tell”--Murray paused, dessert dish in
hand--“that Mrs. Hall arranged with one of the ’tecs to have a taxi
sent out from the city for her.” And without more ado he disappeared
into the pantry.

Vera was a trifle out of breath when she entered Craig Porter’s
bedroom. Mrs. Hall, chart in hand, was standing by the mahogany desk,
and her face cleared at sight of Vera.

“Why didn’t you let me know you wished to go off duty a little
earlier?” asked Vera reproachfully. “I would have hurried back--”

“Because I knew it would rest you to have your dinner in peace and
quiet. I have arranged Mr. Porter for the night and given him his
nourishment. All you have to do is to follow the doctor’s directions;
they are pinned to the chart.”

“Of course I will follow the doctor’s orders,” responded Vera, much
offended by her companion’s manner as well as her words, “I will obey
instructions as I have done heretofore.”

Mrs. Hall looked at her oddly, a look which Vera missed as she crossed
the room to arrange the window blinds.

“Are you nervous about staying up alone next to that--?” asked Mrs.
Hall, and a turn of her head indicated the room occupied by Bruce
Brainard the night before.

“Not in the least,” answered Vera; she was having some difficulty in
closing the heavy outside blinds and her voice was somewhat muffled.
She jerked her head inside the room again and closed the window. “There
is a motor car coming up the drive--it looks like a taxi.”

“It’s probably for me.” And Mrs. Hall disappeared into the
dressing-room which connected Craig Porter’s bedroom and the room which
she and Vera shared.

Left to herself Vera went thoughtfully over to the desk. She was still
writing when Mrs. Hall reappeared, bag in hand.

“Will you please mail this letter for me in the city?” asked Vera. “I
won’t be a moment finishing it.”

“You’ll find blotting-paper in the lower desk drawer,” announced Mrs.
Hall, stopping to button her heavy coat up about her throat. “It wastes
time blowing on the ink.” Vera reddened. “If it is only a note to your
sister, why not give me a verbal message?”

Vera’s color deepened. “I prefer to write,” she answered stiffly.

“As you wish; I only made the suggestion to save time,” and Mrs. Hall
glanced significantly at the clock.

Vera’s hot temper got the upper hand. “On second thought, I’ll
not detain you longer,” she said, and her long, slender fingers
made mince-meat of the letter she had been writing. With a mumbled
“good night,” Mrs. Hall left the room, and, turning, Vera stared
contemplatively at the door. What had come over her companion? It was
not like Mrs. Hall to be so cantankerous.

Vera spent the next hour in performing her accustomed duties, and
when she finally took her seat near the shaded night light she
was conscious of utter weariness, a weariness more akin to mental
exhaustion than she had known in many months--the day’s horrors were
telling upon her, and her mental state was reacting upon her physical
strength. A footstep outside the partly open hall door caused her to
hasten across the room as Murray appeared, tray in hand.

“Cook sent some broth tonight as well as the sandwiches,” he said,
lowering his voice as he tiptoed into the room and placed the tray on
a side table. “She thought you would like to have something hot in the
early morning, and I put the broth in the thermos bottle.”

“That was very kind and thoughtful of you both,” exclaimed Vera
gratefully. “Please thank cook for me.”

“Yes, miss.” Murray tiptoed over to the bed and looked at Craig
Porter, who lay with his eyes closed, his face matching the sheets in
whiteness. The almost imperceptible rise and fall of his chest was the
only indication that life still lingered in the palsied body. Shaking
his head, Murray retreated to the hall door.

“I’m thinking the young master’s health will have a setback, now Dr.
Noyes has gone,” he said sorrowfully. “And he was improving so finely.”

“We are keeping up the same treatment,” replied Vera. “Good night,
Murray, and thank you.”

Pausing only long enough to see if her patient required attention, Vera
returned to her chair, and in its comfortable, upholstered depths her
tired muscles relaxed, and she half lay, half sat at ease and surveyed
her surroundings. The room and its furnishings were well worth a second
look, but an attraction which Vera was powerless to conquer drew her
eyes to the transom in the wall separating the room she sat in and the
one which had harbored the grim tragedy of the night before.

In her excited state of mind she half expected to see the same faint
light appear through the transom which had shone there twenty-odd hours
before, but the darkness in the next room was unrelieved. However, even
the patch of darkness gave full play to her morbid fancies, and with a
shudder she turned her head away--to find Mrs. Porter standing by her
side. Too startled to move she gazed in amazement at her employer.

“I slipped in through your bedroom so as not to disturb Craig,”
explained Mrs. Porter, in a subdued tone. “The other door lets in so
much light from the hall when opened. I have something to say to you--”

“Yes, Mrs. Porter.” Vera was on her feet. “Will you sit here, or shall
we--”

“Is Craig asleep?”

Vera moved over to the bed and bent over her patient, then returned.

“Yes, he is still slumbering,” she announced.

“Then I will sit here.” Mrs. Porter pulled forward a companion chair to
the one Vera had vacated. “If we speak low our voices cannot disturb
Craig in this large room. How is he tonight?”

Vera hesitated, and Mrs. Porter, her eyes sharpened by love, saw it
even in the dim night light, and one hand went to her heart.

“I really think Mr. Porter is the same,” answered Vera hastily. “I
see--no change.”

A heavy sigh broke from Mrs. Porter. “Why couldn’t Alan Noyes have
stayed?” she moaned. “Why such mad haste? I would have paid him any
price--done anything, in and out of reason, to insure my boy having his
skilled medical attendance. And now--”

Never before had Vera seen Mrs. Porter’s composure shaken, and as she
looked at her grief-stricken face a compassion and understanding of the
woman she had deemed all-worldly moved her. Impulsively she extended
her hands in ready sympathy, and Mrs. Porter clasped them eagerly.

“Don’t borrow trouble, dear Mrs. Porter,” she entreated. “Dr. Washburn
stands very high in the profession--”

“But he can’t come.” Mrs. Porter dashed tears from her eyes. “He has
just sent word that he is ill with pleurisy, and recommends that I send
for Dr. Beverly Thorne.”

“What?” Vera studied her intently. “Will you follow Dr. Washburn’s
advice?”

“And send for Beverly Thorne?” with bitter emphasis. “I wouldn’t have
that man attend a sick cat! Oh, why didn’t I close this house and go
back to the city?”

Vera was discreetly silent. Mrs. Porter had carried her point of
wintering in the country against the, at first, outspoken indignation
of Millicent and the veiled opposition of Hugh Wyndham; but that was
hardly the moment to remind Mrs. Porter that by having her own way
she had herself to thank for their isolated position. Mrs. Porter
continued her remarks, heedless of Vera’s silence. “And poor Millicent
is cut off from young companionship just at the moment when she needs
her friends. By the way”--bending eagerly forward--“can’t your sister
come and stay with Millicent?”

“Dorothy--stay here?” Vera half rose, her eyes dilating.

“Why not?” demanded Mrs. Porter. “The two girls were chums at
boarding-school, even if they haven’t seen much of each other for
several years, and I imagine you know Hugh’s opinion of Dorothy--” Vera
nodded dumbly. “I’ve always been very fond of Dorothy, and I can’t
understand, Vera, why you permitted her to go into newspaper work,” in
reproachful accents.

“Dorothy is old enough now to judge for herself,” said Vera wearily.
“She selected newspaper work for various reasons, and I must say,” with
quick pride, “Dorothy has done well in that profession.”

“I know she has, and I admire her for it.” Mrs. Porter spoke warmly,
and Vera colored with pleasure. “Do put your clever wits to work, Vera,
and arrange it so that Dorothy can get leave from her office and
spend a week here at the least. Her cheerful society will do Millicent
good. I wish, my dear, that I could see more of you,” and Mrs. Porter
impulsively kissed her. “But you sleep all day and work all night, and
I sleep all night.” She rose abruptly. “I must go back to Millicent;
the child is grieving her heart out.” She made a hesitating step
toward the door leading into Vera’s bedroom. “Did you mention in your
testimony at the inquest this afternoon that you saw Millicent down in
the library when you went to telephone to the coroner?”

“No.” Vera caught the look of relief which lighted Mrs. Porter’s eyes
for a brief instant, then the older woman continued on her way to the
door, but she stopped again on its threshold.

“Do you know what became of the key to the next room after they removed
Mr. Brainard’s body to the morgue in Alexandria?” she asked.

“No, I was asleep at that hour.” Vera came nearer. “Is the bedroom
locked?”

“Yes. I suppose the police--” Mrs. Porter’s voice trailed off, then she
added, “Good night,” and was gone.

Vera went thoughtfully over to the bedside and, seeing that Craig
Porter still slept, she moved over to the desk and, picking up a pad
and pencil, tried to reduce her ideas to writing. The words repeated to
her by Mrs. Hall, who had been told the jury’s verdict by the coroner,
recurred to her:

“We find that Bruce Brainard came to his death while spending the night
at the residence of Mrs. Lawrence Porter, between the hours of two and
five in the morning of January 8th, from the severing of the carotid
artery in his throat, and from the nature of the wound and other
evidence produced here we find that he was foully murdered by a party
or parties unknown.”

“By a party _unknown_,” Vera murmured, dashing her pencil through the
words she had scrawled on her pad. “But how long will the ‘party’
remain ‘unknown’-- Merciful God! If there was only someone I could turn
to!” and she wrung her hands as she gazed despairingly at the desk
calendar.

A low tap at the hall door aroused her and, hastening across the room,
she looked into the hall. Murray was standing by the door.

“Your sister is out on the portico, miss,” he announced in a low voice.

“Dorothy--here--at this hour?” Vera looked at the footman in amazement.

“It isn’t so very late, miss, not yet eleven,” explained Murray. “I
asked Miss Dorothy in, but she said she didn’t wish to disturb anyone;
only wanted a word with you.”

Vera viewed the footman in silence, then came to a sudden decision.
“Very well, I will go downstairs. You remain with Mr. Porter, Murray,
until I return.”

“Yes, miss.” And Murray, waiting respectfully for her to step into the
hall, entered the bedroom and closed the door.

On reaching the front hall Vera paused long enough to slip on Millicent
Porter’s sport coat which was hanging from the hat stand, and, putting
up the latch, she walked out on the portico, and stopped abruptly
on finding herself alone. A low hail from a taxi standing a slight
distance down the driveway caused her to look in that direction, and
she saw Dorothy’s face at its window. A second more and she stood by
the taxi door, held invitingly open by Dorothy.

“Are you mad, Dorothy?” she demanded, keeping her voice lowered in
spite of her anger. “To come out here at this hour of the night!”

“It’s perfectly all right,” retorted Dorothy. “William, our old
coachman, brought me out in his taxi,” pointing to a man in chauffeur’s
livery who stood some little distance away. “Did you think I could stay
away, Vera, when I heard--”

“What have you heard?” The question shot from Vera.

“That you found Bruce with his throat cut--” Dorothy drew in her breath
sharply. “I never dreamed he would kill himself--”

“The coroner’s jury called it murder,” said Vera dully.

“Whom do they suspect?” gasped Dorothy.

“I imagine Dr. Noyes.”

“Dr. Noyes!” in profound astonishment. “Why?”

“Chiefly because of his sudden departure without bidding anyone
good-by.”

“But--but--the motive? Heavens! Did _he_ know Bruce?” And Vera leaned
forward from the taxi, so that the moonlight fell full on her face.

“He met him last night,” with dry emphasis, and Dorothy moved
restlessly. “Listen, Dorothy, I can stay but a moment longer. If you
should be questioned, remember that at the inquest I did not mention
that I had ever seen Bruce Brainard before last night, and that I have
not confided to anyone in the Porter house that I ever heard of him
before.”

“But--but--Hugh knows.”

“Hugh Wyndham!” Vera clutched the door of the car for support. “Did you
tell him tonight?”

“No, I haven’t seen him for over a week. I--” But Vera did not give her
time to finish her sentence.

“Dorothy, were you so foolish--my God! you didn’t mention _names_ to
Hugh?”

Her sister nodded dumbly.

From one of the leafless trees far down the lawn an owl hooted
derisively as a light footstep crunched the gravel just behind Vera,
and she swung quickly about. The front door of the house was wide open
and a stream of light illuminated the portico.

Millicent Porter, approaching nearer, recognized Vera and her sister,
and darted to the side of the car with a glad cry of welcome.

“Dorothy, you’ve come!” she exclaimed, seizing her hands. “I told Hugh
not to return without you.”

Dorothy glanced in speechless surprise from Vera to Millicent, then
back, almost pleadingly, to her sister. Vera’s face was set and stern.

“Yes, Millicent,” she said quietly. “Dorothy has come to spend the
ni--” she stumbled in her speech--“several days,” she amended.




CHAPTER VII

AT THORNEDALE LODGE


A ROW of beautiful trees ran the length of Thornedale Lodge, facing
the entrance on the south. They had been planted generations before,
and, no allowance made for their increase in height and circumference,
towering above the old house, they were landmarks for miles around.
Their branches touched the galleries and windows, and in summer their
foliage shut out much light and sunshine, but Beverly Thorne scoffed at
the idea of dampness and refused to cut down the trees, as his father
had refused before him. The stars in their constellation were not more
fixed than the customs which had obtained in the old Virginia home.

Beverly Thorne crossed the lawn and entered his house, and an
anxious-faced negro butler, grown gray in service, came forward to meet
him.

“Yo’ breakfas’ am served, sah,” he announced, and his soft drawling
voice contained a note of reproach. “I done looked ober de whole house
fo’ yo’, an’ de things am gettin’ cold.”

“Sorry, Cato.” Thorne preceded the old servant into the dining-room,
but instead of approaching the table he stopped before a window
overlooking the sloping ground and a distant view of the Porter
homestead, Dewdrop Inn. “See that man, Cato, loitering near the lodge
gate?” he asked, and Cato peered over his shoulder. “Send Julius to
him. Wait,” as Cato moved away. “Tell Julius to say that Dr. Thorne
presents his compliments and asks Detective Mitchell to come here and
have a cup of coffee with him.”

“Yessir.” And Cato went to execute the errand, while Thorne waited
until he saw the small negro boy who assisted Cato in tending the
grounds cross the back lawn, then turned away from the window.

Walking over to the table he picked up a folded newspaper by his plate
and used it as a shield as he drew a photograph from his inside coat
pocket. The picture was irregular in shape and small in size, and had
evidently been cut from a group photograph, for the two figures on
either side of Vera Deane had been partly decapitated by scissors. Vera
and her companions were in their nurses’ costume and carried diplomas.
It was an excellent likeness of Vera, her pose was natural and her
fresh young beauty and fearless eyes claimed the attention of the most
casual. Thorne knew every light and shade in the photograph.

“To think she threw away her happiness, her career, for--” he muttered,
and his hand clenched in impotent wrath, then, becoming aware of the
negro butler’s return, he replaced the photograph in his pocket, and
soon became absorbed in the newspaper. Cato, considerably annoyed by
the prospect of further delay in serving breakfast, arranged another
place at the table with more alacrity than his rheumatic joints usually
permitted. He had no more than finished when Detective Mitchell
appeared in the side door, ushered in by the grinning boy. Throwing
down his paper, Thorne greeted the detective heartily.

“Very good of you to share my breakfast,” he said, pouring out a
steaming cup of coffee as Mitchell took possession of the chair pulled
out for him by Cato.

“You are the good Samaritan, doctor,” declared Mitchell, rubbing his
chilled hands. “The Porter place gets the full force of the wind; you
are more sheltered here,” glancing out of the diamond-paned windows,
and then back again at his host and the cosy dining-room with its
blazing logs in the large stone fireplace at the farther end.

The somewhat shabby old furniture, the wide sideboard on which stood
quaint glass candelabra and heavy cut-glass decanters and dishes of the
generous proportions of former decades, a table in the window littered
with magazines and books, and near at hand a mahogany stand equipped
with a smoking outfit, all seemed to blend with the low time-stained
oak beams and wainscoted walls. No curtains hung in the windows, and
the winter sunshine streamed in, betraying here and there in cracks and
crannies small accumulations of dust which Cato’s old eyes had passed
unseen.

Thorne observed which way his guest’s attention was straying and
smiled, well pleased; he was proud of the historic old house. “This is
one of the pleasantest rooms,” he said, pushing the toast rack near the
detective. “Try some toast; it’s hot.”

“Thanks.” Mitchell enjoyed his breakfast for a few minutes in silence.
“Is this house older than the Porter mansion?”

“Same age; in fact my great-great-grandfather built them both,”
answered Thorne. “But this was only a hunting lodge, while the Porter
homestead was a mansion house, and is pure Georgian in architecture.”

“It’s the best-looking house in this country,” affirmed Mitchell
enthusiastically. “Pity to have a gruesome crime committed inside its
old walls.”

“You are sure it was a crime?” asked Thorne, stirring his coffee and
then sipping it gingerly. “A murder?”

Mitchell stared at him in surprise. “Of course I’m sure that it was a
murder. Didn’t the medical evidence prove that the wound could not have
been self-inflicted?”

“The deputy coroner gave that as his belief, with one reservation--the
wound could have been self-inflicted if Bruce Brainard was left-handed.”

“Which he wasn’t,” declared Mitchell positively. “I have questioned all
who knew Brainard, and they swear he was right-handed. So there you
are, doctor, with a case of proven murder.”

Thorne laid down a fresh piece of toast untasted on his plate. “I take
exception to Deputy Coroner McPherson’s theory that the wound from its
appearance could not have been self-inflicted,” he announced slowly.
“Any surgeon will tell you that it is next to impossible to tell with
any degree of accuracy at exactly which point the razor first entered
the flesh. Brainard might have gashed himself by holding the razor
in his right hand with the full intention of committing suicide, and
opened the carotid artery. In that way he could have inflicted just
such a wound as killed him.”

Mitchell moved impatiently. “Why didn’t you mention that at the
inquest?” he grumbled.

“Because I was not called as a witness.”

The detective ruminated silently for some moments, casting frequent
glances at his host.

“Well, perhaps an expert can tear the medical evidence to pieces at
the trial, but there’s one point you overlook, doctor,” he argued.
“But if it was suicide, where did Brainard get the razor? Everyone
admits, including Mrs. Porter, that he had not expected to spend the
night, and he did not bring a pair of pyjamas; only had the clothes on
his back, a dress suit. Mr. Wyndham admitted in the presence of the
coroner yesterday that Mr. Brainard did not see his overcoat after he
was taken ill, and Murray, the footman, states that it hung in the coat
closet until I took it down to examine it.” Mitchell paused and added
impressively: “I’ll stake my reputation that Brainard had no razor when
he was put to bed, therefore he could not have committed suicide. He
was murdered by someone inside the house.”

“No one in the Porter household admits having seen that razor before,”
was Thorne’s only comment.

“Sure, they ain’t going to give each other away.”

Thorne straightened up and looked at the detective. “Do you mean to
imply a conspiracy?”

“No, not a conspiracy to _kill_ Brainard,” Mitchell hastened to
explain. “Only an endeavor on the part of Mrs. Porter and her daughter,
Millicent, to shield the guilty man.”

Thorne reached over and rang the small silver bell, then replaced it
on the table. “More coffee, Cato,” he directed, and turned again to
Mitchell as the servant disappeared with the pot. “And who is the
guilty man?”

“Frankly, I’m not quite sure,” admitted Mitchell, grinning. “But as
there are only two men in the house, not counting the butler, footman,
chauffeur, and two gardeners, I hardly anticipate difficulty in
narrowing the hunt down to one.”

“And the two men are--”

“Dr. Alan Noyes and Hugh Wyndham.”

Thorne opened his cigar-case and offered it to Mitchell, then helped
himself and placed a box of matches on an ash-tray conveniently before
his guest.

“Dr. Alan Noyes and Hugh Wyndham,” he repeated thoughtfully. “Mitchell,
you have overlooked a member of the family in your list.”

“You mean--?” The detective looked puzzled.

“Craig Porter.”

Mitchell laughed outright. “Have you seen him?”

“No.”

“Why, doctor, he’s paralyzed, can’t move hand or foot.” Mitchell
puffed contentedly at his cigar. “I was in his bedroom yesterday
afternoon and got a good look at him while I was chatting with Mrs.
Hall, the other nurse. I don’t think Porter will live very long, poor
devil,” he added. “Fine-looking chap; must have been some athlete, from
all accounts.”

“Yes,” agreed Thorne, moving his plate aside to make room for the fresh
pot of coffee which Cato brought in at that moment. “Let me give you
a hot cup, Mitchell; there, that’s better. What were you going to ask
me?” observing that his companion hesitated.

“Can you give me any pointers about this Dr. Alan Noyes and Hugh
Wyndham?” asked Mitchell. “They are your next-door neighbors, so to
speak.”

“And I never crossed their threshold until yesterday,” responded Thorne
dryly. “A family feud of long standing, Mitchell, and if I were the
devil with horns, Mrs. Porter couldn’t regard me with more horror.” A
boyish smile touched his stern lips and his gray eyes twinkled.

Mitchell glanced at him speculatively. There was little of the student
in Thorne’s appearance; his bronzed cheeks and throat spoke of
out-of-doors, and his well-cut riding-clothes showed his tall, wiry
figure to advantage. The faint crow’s feet under his eyes and the
slight graying of his black hair at the temples gave an impression of
a not too easy path in life, and Mitchell decided in his own mind that
his host was between thirty-six and thirty-eight years of age.

“While I never talked to Mrs. Porter until yesterday, Mitchell,”
continued Thorne, laying down the stub of his cigar, “I’ve had a slight
acquaintance with Wyndham, and one not calculated to make me popular
with him.”

“How’s that, doctor?”

“Oh, in my capacity of justice of the peace I’ve had to fine him for
speeding,” responded Thorne. “I believe Noyes was with him on one of
these occasions, but he stayed out in the motor car.”

“I wonder whose motor Noyes used to leave the Porters’ early yesterday
morning,” mused Mitchell. “Pshaw! there’s little use in speculating
along that line. We’ve proved his alibi was true.”

“Indeed? You mean--”

“That a cipher cablegram was telephoned out to him from New York
yesterday morning between two and three, and if Mrs. Porter’s
testimony is to be relied on--and I see no reason to doubt it
now--Noyes must have made straight for New York and is aboard the S. S.
_St. Louis_, of the American Line. She sailed for Liverpool, and I’ve
wirelessed out, but haven’t received an answer from the ship.”

“So that clears Noyes,” commented Thorne.

“Yes, I suppose it does,” but Mitchell’s tone was doubtful. “It doesn’t
explain Miss Millicent Porter’s curious behavior at the inquest.
Judging by her manner and her testimony, she _believes_ Noyes guilty.”

“Miss Porter was in a very hysterical state, hardly accountable for her
actions.” Thorne paused and examined his nicotine-stained fingers with
interest. “Have you unearthed any evidence against Hugh Wyndham?”

“Well”--Mitchell hesitated, and shot a sidelong glance at his
host--“nothing tangible against him--but if we eliminate Noyes it’s got
to be Wyndham.”

Before answering, Thorne refilled his coffee-cup. “Wyndham--or an
outsider,” he said.

“Not a chance of the latter.” Mitchell spoke with absolute confidence.
“I’ve examined every lock and bolt on the doors and windows; not one
is broken or out of order, and both the butler and footman declare all
windows and doors were locked on the ground floor yesterday morning as
usual. Take it from me, doctor, no one broke into that house to murder
Brainard. No one except the dinner guests and Mrs. Porter’s household
knew Brainard was spending the night there. I tell you,” emphasizing
his words by striking the table with his clenched fist, “it was an
inside job.”

“It would seem so,” acknowledged Thorne, who had listened closely to
Mitchell’s statement. “Were you at the Porters’ last night, Mitchell?”

“No, I had to go in to Washington, but I left Pope there, and I
returned early this morning and sent Pope in to Alexandria to get
some breakfast and bring me my share. He’s never appeared.” Mitchell
smiled ruefully. “But for you, doctor, I’d have fared badly. I greatly
appreciate your hot breakfast,” he added, as he rose somewhat awkwardly
and pushed back his chair.

Thorne was slower in rising from the table than his guest.

“Make this house your headquarters, Mitchell, while investigating
Brainard’s murder,” he suggested hospitably. “The nearest road-house
is five miles away. Should you require a meal--a telephone--a quiet
moment--come here.”

The detective looked gratified. “Mighty thoughtful of you, sir,” he
said. “And I accept. The Porter house is out of the beaten track, and
frankly--” He paused as they reached the large hall which did duty also
as a living-room; at least such was the impression gained by Mitchell
as he glanced inquiringly around, for the negro boy had taken him into
the dining-room through a short passage leading from a side door, and
he had not seen the front of the house before.

The staircase in the hall was partly concealed by the stone fireplace
and huge chimney about which it was built; deep window seats,
comfortable lounging-chairs, a few tables, tiger skins, and other fur
rugs, added to the hall’s homelike, comfortable appearance, while guns,
moose and deer heads and other hunting trophies hung on the walls.

Suddenly Mitchell became conscious of his prolonged silence and that
Thorne was waiting courteously for him to continue his remark.

“Frankly,” he commenced again, “I think the mystery will be solved and
the murderer apprehended within forty-eight hours. And in that case,
doctor, I’ll not trespass long on your hospitality.”

“Come over whenever you care to,” exclaimed Thorne. “I’ll tell Cato to
make you comfortable if I am not here.”

“Thanks.” Mitchell turned up the collar of his overcoat as Thorne
opened the front door, and stood hesitating on the threshold. “Say,
doctor,” he suddenly burst out, “you were the first outside the Porter
family to see Brainard yesterday morning--what struck you most forcibly
about the affair?”

Thorne considered the question. “The composure of Nurse Deane,” he said
finally. “The young woman who _said_ she was the first to discover the
crime.”

Mitchell stared at him open-mouthed. “What do you mean?” he demanded.

“It is an unheard of thing for a first-class trained nurse to sleep at
her post.” Thorne spoke slowly, carefully. “And the transom between
the two bedrooms was open.”

“But it is over Craig Porter’s bed,” objected Mitchell. “And Nurse
Deane couldn’t have looked through the transom without climbing up on
his bed.”

“I grant you she could not have looked through the transom,” answered
Thorne. “But she could _hear_. The slightest sound becomes ‘noise’ at
dead of night.”

Mitchell’s eyes grew bigger and bigger. “Then you think--”

“That Nurse Deane both heard the murder committed and investigated it
long before she went to summon Hugh Wyndham--and in that interval she
had time to partially recover from shock and exert her self-control
which, for a girl of her years, appears little short of marvelous.”

There was a brief silence which Mitchell broke.

“You’ve given me a new viewpoint,” he said. “So you think Nurse Deane
is an accessory after the fact?”

“Possibly--through sympathy.”

Mitchell whistled. “Not to say affection, eh, doctor?” But Thorne
was looking through the open door and failed to catch Mitchell’s
suggestive wink. Mitchell moved briskly across the paved walk which led
from the front door to the box-hedged garden in front of the house.
“I’ll let you know what the third degree brings forth, doctor,” he
called over his shoulder and hurried up the walk.




CHAPTER VIII

MANY INVENTIONS


DOROTHY DEANE laid aside the muffler she had been pretending to knit
and stared intently at Millicent who lay stretched out on the lounge
in Mrs. Porter’s pretty boudoir. Millicent was certainly asleep at
last, but Dorothy waited several more minutes before rising cautiously
and stretching her stiff muscles. It seemed hours since she had
breakfasted. Taking care not to awaken the sleeper, Dorothy left the
room and, after debating her future actions, she finally went in search
of Murray. She found the footman polishing the silver service in the
pantry.

“Miss Millicent wishes to know, Murray, if Mr. Wyndham has returned,”
she said, letting the swing door close behind her.

“No, Miss Dorothy, not yet.” Murray dropped his chamois and
straightened to an upright position, and a sudden sharp crick in his
back resulting caused an involuntary groan to burst from him. Dorothy
looked at him sympathetically.

“Why not use Sloane’s liniment?” she asked.

Murray shook his head and eyed her dismally. “I’ll just have to endure
it, miss--if it isn’t rheumatism it’s something else.”

“Try a liver pill,” suggested Dorothy. She was aware of Murray’s
peculiarities, and, if discussing medicine and illness would put him
in a good humor, she was willing to go any length; Murray alone could
supply her with certain information. Her suggestion, however, was
unfortunate.

Murray favored her with a withering glance. “It’s not my liver that
gives me an ache in every bone, it’s grippe,” he announced. “I’m
wishing I had one of them ante-bellum cartridges.”

“Had what?” Dorothy looked at him in honest amazement.

“Ante-bellum cartridges,” he repeated. “The same as Dr. Noyes gave you,
Miss Dorothy, when you came down with cold and fever in Christmas week.”

“Oh!” Dorothy’s piquant face dimpled into a smile, hastily suppressed;
discretion prevailed in spite of her love of fun. It was wiser not to
tell Murray that he should have said “antifebrin capsules”; she was
there to wheedle, not to instruct. “Oh, Murray, I do hope you haven’t
grippe--it’s so contagious.”

“Yes, miss.” But Murray did not look downcast at the idea. “We’d be a
whole hospital then, a regular hospital.” His face lengthened. “But
we’ve no doctor in the house, now Dr. Noyes has gone.”

“Oh, well, there’s one in the neighborhood; in fact, just across the
fields--Dr. Thorne.”

Murray shook his head dubiously. “I’m thinking I wouldn’t like him,” he
said thoughtfully. “They say he’s over-hasty at cutting people up.”

Dorothy laughed, then became serious. “I believe he has made a
specialty of surgery.” She turned as if to go. “By the way, Murray, did
Mr. Wyndham mention when he would be back?”

“No, miss, he didn’t.” Murray, turning about to replace a dish on the
shelf, smiled discreetly. “I’m thinking, miss, that Mr. Hugh intended
to tell Mrs. Porter when he would be back when that ’tec, Mr. Mitchell,
stepped out of the door I was holding open for Mrs. Porter, and Mr.
Hugh called to her to expect him when she saw him, and the car started
off with a rush. He was here this morning.”

“Who--Mr. Hugh?” Dorothy turned like a flash.

“No, no, miss, the ’tec, Mitchell. I hear tell as how he’s the man in
charge here; tall, light-haired, looks as if he didn’t belong anywhere,
’cause he’s so busy concealing he’s looking everywhere.”

“I know the man you mean.” Dorothy laid her hand on the swing door.
“Miss Millicent and I watched him pacing up and down the carriage drive
before breakfast, and saw him go toward Dr. Thorne’s house. Has he been
here since? Oh!” She stepped back, startled, as a face appeared at the
pantry window, and a second later a finger tapped gently on the pane.

“Speaking of the devil”--muttered Murray, walking past Dorothy and
throwing open the window. “What do you want to scare the lady for?” he
demanded wrathfully.

“I beg your pardon.” Mitchell lifted his hat and regarded Dorothy
solemnly. “I was under the impression she had seen me standing here a
moment ago. Please tell Nurse Deane, Murray, that I wish to see her.”

Dorothy, who had drawn back until she stood partly hidden by the wall
of the pantry from Mitchell’s penetrating gaze, grew paler as she heard
the detective’s request, and the quick droop of her eyelids hid a look
of sudden terror. Before the footman could reply she stepped forward to
the window.

“My sister is off duty this morning,” she said. “She is still asleep in
her bedroom. Can I take your message to her?”

Mitchell considered rapidly before replying. “May I have a few words
with you?”

“Surely. Will you not come into the house? It is rather chilly standing
by an open window.”

“Walk around to the front door, sir, and I’ll show you into the
drawing-room,” directed Murray, removing his apron and closing the
window. “Mrs. Porter is in the library,” he added, and hastened to open
the swing door.

With a word of thanks Dorothy walked slowly through the dining-room and
down the hall, permitting the footman to reach the front door and usher
Detective Mitchell into the drawing-room before she entered. She bowed
courteously to Mitchell and signed to him to take a chair near the sofa
on which she deposited herself with careful regard to having her back
turned to the windows and the detective facing the light. She waited
for him to open the conversation.

“You came here last night, Miss Deane.” It seemed more a simple
statement of fact than a question, and Dorothy treated it as such
and made no reply. Mitchell moved his chair nearer the sofa before
asking, “Did I understand you to say that your sister was resting this
morning--or ill?”

Dorothy started; ill, why should the detective imagine Vera was ill?

“She is resting,” she responded. “Your ignorance of nurses’ hours
of duty proves a clean bill of health, Mr. Mitchell. Night nurses
must sleep in the daytime, especially when the day nurse is late in
reporting for duty.”

“But Mrs. Hall has been back for some time,” persisted Mitchell. “And
it is now nearly one o’clock. Are you quite sure that your sister is
still asleep? I am under the impression that I saw her in the upper
hall talking to Miss Porter fifteen minutes ago.”

Dorothy considered the detective in silence. What had aroused his
sudden interest in Vera?

“If you will give me your message,” she said, “I will go upstairs and
see if my sister is awake.”

“Thank you,” replied Mitchell. “But I must see your sister--”

“When?”

“Now.” Hearing a step behind him, Mitchell spun around as Murray
stopped by the back of his chair.

“Mrs. Porter desires you to step into the library, sir,” he announced.
“You also, Miss Dorothy,” and, wondering why her presence was required,
Dorothy followed the detective into the library.

A disorderly pile of newspapers lay on the center table in front of
Mrs. Porter, whose air of displeasure and heightened color Dorothy
rightly attributed to the display type which heralded the news accounts
of the mysterious death of Bruce Brainard.

“Upon my word,” Mrs. Porter’s gold lorgnette performed an incessant
tattoo on the table. “The unbridled license of the press of today! And
your paper, Dorothy, is most sensational,” addressing her directly.
“How could you permit it?”

“But, dear Mrs. Porter, I’m only society editor--I have no authority
except over my particular section of the paper,” protested Dorothy. “I
am deeply sorry if--if the article offends you.”

“It not only offends--it’s offensive!” fumed Mrs. Porter. “I spoke
hastily, Dorothy; I admit you are in no way to blame, but I’ll place
the matter in my lawyer’s hands, and the owners of the paper shall
smart for hinting that we are a band of murderers.”

“Surely it does not go as far as that?” ejaculated Mitchell.

“It implies it.” Mrs. Porter favored him with an angry look. “I see the
article gives you, Mr. Mitchell, as authority for the statement that
Dr. Noyes is being sought by the police. How dare you insinuate that
he may be guilty? I gave his reason for his abrupt departure at the
inquest; the jurors did not hold him in any way responsible for the
crime or bring a verdict against him.”

“You must not believe everything you read in the newspapers,” remarked
Mitchell, meeting her irate glare with unruffled good nature. “My
precise statement to the newspaper men implied nothing against Dr.
Noyes. The reporters simply picked him as the first possible ‘suspect.’”

“Kindly disabuse their minds of any such idea. Dr. Noyes, besides his
professional ability, is a man of high character and proven courage.
He would not stoop to murder,” declared Mrs. Porter hotly. “Besides,
there is no possible motive for his killing Bruce Brainard--they never
even met before Monday night.” Mitchell remained discreetly silent,
and, after watching him in growing resentment, Mrs. Porter announced
vehemently: “Mr. Brainard committed suicide. In ascribing his death to
murder, the police err.”

“What leads you to believe he committed suicide?” demanded Mitchell.

“His morbid tendencies, his--” She stopped abruptly. “He must have been
suffering from mental aberration.”

“All suicides are temporarily insane,” agreed Mitchell. “Otherwise they
would not kill themselves; but, Mrs. Porter, in Brainard’s case the
medical evidence went to prove that the wound in his throat could not
have been self-inflicted.”

“Fiddle-de-dee! I don’t place any reliance on that deputy coroner’s
testimony.” Mrs. Porter indulged in a most undignified sniff. “Was Dr.
Beverly Thorne present at the autopsy?”

“No.” Mitchell moved nearer the center table. Mrs. Porter’s altered
manner at the mention of Beverly Thorne’s name had not escaped
the detective’s attention. Apparently Mrs. Porter was far from
loving her neighbor like herself. The family feud, whatever it was
about originally, would not be permitted to die out in her day and
generation. Mitchell dropped his voice to a confidential pitch: “Come,
Mrs. Porter, if you will tell me what you have in mind--” Mrs. Porter’s
frigid smile stopped him.

“I can hardly do that and remain impersonal--and polite,” she remarked,
and Dorothy, watching them both, smothered a keen desire to laugh. “It
is my unalterable opinion that Bruce Brainard, in a fit of temporary
insanity, killed himself,” added Mrs. Porter.

“Ah, indeed! And where did he procure the razor?”

“That is for you to find out.” Mrs. Porter rose. “Do that and you
will--”

“Identify the murderer,” substituted Mitchell, with a provoking smile;
in the heat of argument she might let slip whatever she hoped to
conceal.

“No, prove my theory correct,” Mrs. Porter retorted, rising and walking
toward the door. She desired the interview closed. “Have you the key to
Mr. Brainard’s bedroom?”

“Yes, Mrs. Porter.”

“Then kindly return it to me.” And she extended her hand. “The room
must be cleaned and put in order.”

“Not yet,” retorted Mitchell. “It was to prevent anything being touched
in the room that I locked the door. After the mystery is solved, Mrs.
Porter, I shall be most happy to return the key.”

Mrs. Porter elevated her eyebrows as she looked at Dorothy and murmured
in an audible aside, “Clothed in a little brief authority;” then,
addressing Mitchell, who was following them to the door, “Mr. Mitchell,
in the absence of my nephew, Mr. Wyndham, I must remind you that I
cannot permit you or your assistants to intrude upon the privacy of my
family.”

“Except in the line of duty, madam.” Mitchell’s tone matched hers.
“This case must be thoroughly investigated, no matter who is involved.
Miss Deane, kindly inform your sister that I must see her at the
earliest possible moment.”

“She will see you when she is disengaged, and not before,” retorted
Mrs. Porter, wrath getting the better of her judgment, and laying an
imperious hand on Dorothy’s arm she conducted her from the room.

Mitchell turned back and paced up and down the library for over five
minutes, then paused in front of the telephone stand. “So the old
lady is hostile,” he muttered, turning the leaves of the telephone
directory. “And Pope isn’t back yet--” He ran his finger down the list
of names and at last found the one he sought. Hitching the telephone
nearer he repeated a number into the mouthpiece, and a second later was
talking with Beverly Thorne.

“What, doctor, you don’t wish to come here again!” ejaculated the
detective, as Thorne refused his first request. “Now, don’t let that
fool feud interfere with your helping me, doctor. I assure you you
can be of the greatest assistance, and as justice of the peace I
think there is no other course open to you. Yes, I want you right
away--you’ll come? I shan’t forget it, doctor. I’ll meet you at the
door.” And with a satisfied smile the detective hung up the receiver
and went in search of Murray.

Mitchell, twenty minutes later, stood twirling his thumbs in the front
hall; his growing impatience was finally rewarded by the ringing of the
front bell, and before the butler could get down the hall he had opened
the door and was welcoming Thorne.

“We’ll go upstairs, doctor,” said Mitchell, after Thorne had
surrendered his hat and overcoat to Selby, and stood waiting the
detective’s pleasure. “Selby, ask Miss Vera Deane to join us at once--”

“I am here,” cut in a voice from the stair landing, and Vera stepped
into view. Her eyes traveled past the detective and rested on Beverly
Thorne with an intentness which held his own gaze. Totally oblivious of
Mitchell and the butler they continued to stare at each other. Suddenly
the carmine crept up Vera’s white cheeks, and she turned to Mitchell,
almost with an air of relief. “What is it you wish?”

“A few minutes’ chat with you,” answered the detective, mounting the
stairs. “Suppose we go into Mr. Brainard’s bedroom. Will you lead the
way?” waiting courteously on the landing, but there was an appreciable
pause before Vera complied with his request, and it was a silent
procession of three which the butler saw disappear upstairs.

Mitchell was the first to speak as they gathered about the bedroom
door. “Nice dainty little watch charm to carry about with me,” he said,
holding up a massive brass key which measured at least six inches in
length, with a ward in proportion. “Did you lock Mr. Brainard’s door,
Miss Deane, on Monday night when you returned to your other patient?”

“No, I left the door unlocked, but closed.” Vera spoke with an effort.
“As you see, Mr. Mitchell, the old lock turns with difficulty, and I
feared the noise it makes”--a protesting squeak from the interior of
the lock as Mitchell turned the key illustrated her meaning--“would
disturb Mr. Brainard.”

“It needs oiling, that’s a fact.” Mitchell flung open the unlocked
door. “Come right in,” he said, and stalked ahead of them.

Vera paused on the threshold and half turned as if to go back, but
Thorne’s figure blocked the doorway. Slowly, with marked reluctance,
she advanced into the bedroom, and at a sign from Mitchell, who was
watching her every movement, Thorne closed the door, his expression
inscrutable.

“Look about, Miss Deane,” directed Mitchell, sitting down and drawing
out his notebook. “I want you to study each article in the room and
tell us if it is just where it stood at the time you discovered
Brainard had been murdered. Sit down, if you wish,” indicating a chair
near him.

“Thanks, I prefer to stand.” Vera eyed the two men, then did as she was
bidden, but as she looked about the bedroom she was considering the
motive underlying the detective’s request. What did he hope to learn
from her? How dared he make her a stalking horse, and in the presence
of Beverly Thorne! The thought bred hot resentment, but the red blood
flaming her cheeks receded as quickly as it had come at sight of a
figure stretched out in the bed under the blood-stained sheets and
blankets. A slight scream escaped her and she recoiled.

“It is only a dummy,” explained Mitchell hastily, laying a soothing
hand on her arm. She shrank from his touch.

“I realize it now,” said Vera, moistening her dry lips with the tip of
her tongue. “I had not expected to find it there.”

“Do you see any changes in the room, Miss Deane?” asked Mitchell, as
she lapsed into silence.

Vera, who had been gazing at the figure in the bed as if hypnotized,
turned mechanically about and inspected the bedroom. The window
curtains had been drawn back and the shades raised, and the room was
flooded with light. Catching a glimpse of herself in the huge antique
mirror above the mantelpiece as she turned her back to the bed, Vera
was startled to see how white and drawn her reflection appeared in its
clear depths, and surreptitiously rubbed her cheeks to restore their
color.

“I see nothing changed on the mantel,” she said, and the sound of her
calm voice reassured her; she had not lost her grip, no matter what
the mirror told her. “But”--she wrinkled her brow in thought as her
eyes fell on a chair on which were flung a suit of clothes and some
underclothing--“Mr. Brainard’s dress suit was laid neatly on the sofa
over there, and his underclothes there also.”

“Did you place them there?” asked Mitchell, jotting down her remarks.

“No, they were there when I came into the bedroom Monday night.”

“Did they appear mussed or rumpled the next morning, Miss Deane, as if
Brainard had risen in the night and searched the pockets?” inquired
Thorne, breaking his long silence. He had followed the detective’s
questions and Vera’s replies with the closest attention, while his eyes
never left her. It seemed almost as if he could not look elsewhere, and
but for Vera’s absorption she could not have failed to note his intent
regard.

Vera hesitated before answering his question. “I think the clothes had
not been touched,” she said. “My impression is that they lay exactly
where Mr. Brainard placed them before retiring.”

“Do you think Mr. Brainard, a sick man, placed the clothes on the sofa,
and not Wyndham or Noyes?”

“You must get that information from either of those men,” replied Vera
wearily. “I was not present when Mr. Brainard was put to bed.”

“But you can inform us, Miss Deane, if Dr. Noyes ordered an opiate
administered to Brainard,” broke in Mitchell, and Thorne looked sharply
at him. What was he driving at?

“No, Dr. Noyes did not order an opiate.” Vera moved restlessly. “I gave
Mr. Brainard a dose of aromatic spirits of ammonia as directed, and
that was all.”

Mitchell rose and stepped into the center of the bedroom and pointed
to the transom. It was an oblong opening in the thick wall, forming
the top, apparently, of what had formerly been a door jamb; the
communicating doorway, judging from appearances, having been bricked up
years before. The glass partition of the transom, secured at the bottom
to the woodwork by hinges, hung down into the bedroom occupied by Craig
Porter from chains fastened to the upper woodwork of the transom, and
was barely visible from where Vera and Thorne stood in Brainard’s
bedroom. The glass partition, when closed, was held in place by a catch
lock at the top.

“Look at that, Miss Deane,” exclaimed Mitchell harshly. “The transom
is almost entirely open. Do you still maintain that you heard no sound
during the night in this bedroom?”

“I heard no sound which indicated murder was being committed in this
room,” Vera protested vehemently. “I tell you I heard nothing,”
observing Mitchell’s air of skepticism. “To prove to you that all sound
does not carry into the next bedroom, one of you go in there, and I
will steal from the hall into this room and over to the bed, and the
one who remains can tell what takes place in this room.”

“A good idea.” Mitchell walked briskly toward the door. “You watch,
doctor,” and he stood aside for Vera to step past him into the hall,
then followed her outside and closed the door securely behind him.

Barely waiting for their departure, Thorne moved over to the chair on
which lay Brainard’s clothes, and hurriedly searched the few pockets of
the dress suit, only to find them empty. Evidently the police had taken
charge of whatever had been in them. He was just turning away when the
door opened without a sound and Vera, her white linen skirt slightly
drawn up, slipped into the room and with stealthy tread crept toward
the bed.

Thorne watched her, fascinated by her unconscious grace and her air of
grim determination. He instinctively realized that the test she had
suggested was repugnant to her high-strung, sensitive nature, and only
his strong will conquered his intense desire to end the scene. As close
as he was to her he heard no sound; but for the evidence of his eyes
he could have sworn that he was alone in the room. He saw her turn to
approach the head of the bed, falter, and draw back, and was by her
side instantly. She looked at him half dazed, and but for his steadying
hand would have measured her length on the ground. He read the agony in
her eyes and responded to the unconscious appeal.

“Come back, Mitchell,” he called, and while he pitched his voice as
low as possible its carrying qualities reached the detective in Craig
Porter’s bedroom, and he hurried into the next room in time to see
Thorne offer Vera his silver flask.

“No, I don’t need it,” she insisted, pushing his hand away. “It was
but a momentary weakness. I have had very little sleep for the past
forty-eight hours, and am unstrung. If you have no further questions to
ask me, Mr. Mitchell, I will return to my room.”

Before replying Mitchell looked at Thorne. “Did she do as she said she
would?” he asked. “I heard nothing in the next room until you called
me.”

“Yes. Frankly, had I not seen Miss Deane open the door and enter this
room I would have thought myself alone,” responded Thorne.

“The carpet is thick.” Mitchell leaned down and passed his hand over
it. “It would deaden any sound of footsteps. You are sure that you
heard no talking in here Monday night, Miss Deane?”

“I have already said that I did not,” retorted Vera, and she made no
attempt to keep the bitterness she was feeling out of her voice. “It
seems very hard to convince you, Mr. Mitchell, that I am not a liar.”

Thorne, who had been staring at the bed-table, looked up quickly.

“Did you see a razor lying on this table when you arranged the night
light for Brainard, Miss Deane?” he asked.

“No.” Vera sighed; would they never cease questioning her? “That brass
bell, the glass night light, empty medicine glass, and water caraffe
were the only articles on the table.”

Mitchell went over to the foot of the bed. “Just whereabouts on the bed
did you see the razor yesterday morning?” he asked.

Vera, who stood with her back almost touching the bed, turned
reluctantly around. It was a high four-post bedstead and required a
short flight of steps to mount into it, but some vandal had shortened
the four beautifully carved posts to half their height and the canopy
had also been removed.

The figure lay huddled face down, for which Vera was deeply grateful.
Even in its dark hair she visualized the tortured features of Bruce
Brainard, and she turned with a shudder to point to a spot on the bed
just below the sleeve of the pyjamas which clothed the figure.

“The razor lay there,” she announced positively.

“Thanks.” Mitchell closed and pocketed his notebook. “Now, one more
question, Miss Deane, and then we will let you off. At what time
yesterday morning did you go to summon Dr. Noyes?”

“To be exact, at twenty minutes of six.”

“And what hour was it when you first discovered the murder?”

Vera stared at him dazedly, then her trembling hand clutched the
bedclothes for support, but as her fingers closed over the sleeve of
the pyjamas they encountered bone and muscle. With senses reeling she
half collapsed in Thorne’s arms as the figure rolled over and disclosed
Murray’s agitated countenance.

“H-he m-made m-me do it, miss,” the footman stuttered, pointing an
accusing finger at Mitchell. “Said he wanted to play a trick on Dr.
Thorne; but if I’d dreamed he wanted to scare you, miss, I’d never
have agreed, never. And I’ve been lying here in agony, miss, afraid to
speak because I might scare you to death, and hoping you’d leave the
room without knowing about me. If Mrs. Porter ever hears!” Murray gazed
despairingly at them. “She wouldn’t have minded me making a fool of
Dr. Thorne. Oh, Miss Deane, don’t look at me like that!” and his voice
shook with feeling.

“It’s all right,” gasped Vera, standing shakily erect; Murray’s jumbled
explanation had given her time to recover her poise. She turned to
Detective Mitchell, her eyes blazing with indignation. “The farce is
ended, sir, and my answer to your last question is the same--I found
Mr. Brainard lying here with his throat cut at twenty minutes of six.
Good afternoon.” And she left the three men contemplating each other.




CHAPTER IX

IN THE ATTIC


THE high wind sweeping around the Porter mansion in ever increasing
volume found an echo under the eaves, and the attic in consequence
resounded with dismal noises. Much of the space under the sloping roof
had been given up to the storage of trunks and old furniture, but on
the side facing the Potomac River wooden partitions divided that part
of the attic into rooms for servants.

The south wall of the attic was lined with pine book shelves which ran
up to the wooden rafters. There old Judge Erastus Porter had stored
his extensive law library, and there his great-niece, little Millicent
Porter, had made her playhouse when she visited him. The nook used in
childhood had retained its affection in Millicent’s maturer years and,
the trunks forming an effectual barricade, she had converted it into
a cozy corner, placed pretty curtains in the dormer window, a rug on
the bare boards, wheeled an easy-chair, a highboy, and a flat-top
desk into their respective places, and, last but not least, a large
barrel stood near at hand filled with out-of-print books and a paper
edition of Scott’s novels. Mrs. Porter on her first tour of inspection
of the attic had remonstrated against the barrel, stating that it
spoiled the really handsome pieces of furniture which Millicent had
converted to her own use, but her daughter insisted that the barrel
added a touch of picturesqueness, and that she still enjoyed munching
an apple and reading “Ivanhoe,” a statement that drew the strictured
comment from Mrs. Porter that Millicent had inherited all her father’s
peculiarities, after which she was left in peace and possession.

Bundled up in a sweater, Millicent sat cross-legged before a small
brass-bound, hair-covered trunk, another companion of her childhood,
for she had first learned to print by copying the initials of her
great-great-grandfather outlined in brass tacks on the trunk lid. The
trunk still held a number of childish treasures, as well as cotillion
favors, invitations, photographs, and a bundle of manuscripts. But
contrary to custom, Millicent made no attempt to look at the neatly
typewritten sheets; instead she sat contemplating the open trunk, her
head cocked on one side as if listening.

Finally convinced that all she heard was the moaning of the wind under
the eaves, she lifted out the tray, and, pushing aside some silks and
laces, removed the false bottom of the trunk and took from it a ledger.
Propping the book against the side of the trunk she turned its pages
until she came to an entry which made her pause:

  Dined with Mrs. Seymour. Bruce Brainard took me out to dinner. He was
  very agreeable.

And apparently from the frequency with which his name appeared in her
“memory book,” Bruce Brainard continued to be “agreeable.” Millicent
turned page after page, and for the first time read between the lines
of her stylish penmanship what her mother, with the far-sighted eyes
of experience, had interpreted plainly. Flattered by the attentions
of a polished man of the world, years older than herself, Millicent
had mistaken admiration for interest and liking for love. Brainard’s
courtship of the debutante had been ardent, and what she termed an
engagement and her mother “an understanding” had followed. Brainard
had pleaded for an early wedding, but business had called him away
to Brazil, and on Millicent’s advice, who knew her mother’s whims
and fancies, he had postponed asking Mrs. Porter’s consent to their
engagement until his return.

Millicent read on and on in her ledger; accounts of parties gave place
to comments about her brother, Craig, then he absorbed the entire
space allotted to each day, and the progress of his trip home was duly
recorded, and the items:

  October 5th--Thank God, Craig is home again, but, oh, what a wreck!
  It’s agony to see him lying in bed unable to move hand or foot,
  unable to speak, unable to recognize us. But he’s _home_, not lying
  in an unknown grave somewhere in Europe. I’ve just met Dr. Alan
  Noyes, who accompanied Craig to this country, and to whose skill
  Craig owes his slender hold on life. The doctor is painfully shy.

  October 7th--Saw more of Dr. Noyes today; he improves on
  acquaintance. Mother says he is not shy, only reticent.

Millicent did not linger over the next few entries, but paused and
scanned the words:

  October 15th--Vera Deane has replaced the night nurse for Craig. She
  reminds me so of Dorothy, yet they are not a bit alike. Persuaded
  Dr. Noyes to talk about his experiences in the field hospitals
  abroad. Must write Bruce tonight without fail.

Millicent skipped several pages, then came the entry:

  December 15th--I had no idea Alan Noyes had such a temper; we
  quarreled most awfully. He announced his creed is never to forget a
  friend and never to forgive an enemy. Well, I can be stubborn, too.

Millicent sighed drearily and jumped to the date:

  December 24th--Alan Noyes has been exceptionally nice today. Our
  quarrel has blown over. I wish I had told him about Bruce when we
  first met.

A tear rolled down Millicent’s white cheek and splashed upon the paper,
then suddenly she bowed her head and gave way to the grief consuming
her. The minutes lengthened, and at last she sat up and dried her
eyes. The outburst had brought physical relief, for during the past
twenty-four hours she had fought off every inclination to allow her
feelings sway, had suppressed all sign of emotion, and had refused to
discuss Bruce Brainard’s mysterious death, even with her mother.

[Illustration: “Who’s there?” she called, as heavy steps approached.]

Mrs. Porter had hoped that Millicent’s unnatural calm would give way
when unburdening herself to her old chum, Dorothy Deane, and she
had made opportunities to leave the girls together. But she was not
aware that Dorothy had shown an equal desire to avoid the topic of
the tragedy, and Millicent found to her secret relief that she was
not urged to confidences which she might later bitterly regret. But
that afternoon she had felt the need of being by herself, and had fled
upstairs, hoping her mother would not think of looking for her in the
attic.

Millicent pulled a chair close to her side and was on the point of
rising from her cramped position before the trunk when she heard
someone coming up the uncarpeted stairs. She slammed the ledger shut
and thrust it among the silks and laces in the trunk, and, pulling out
a vanity box, commenced powdering her nose and removing all traces of
recent tears.

“Who’s there?” she called, as heavy steps approached.

“Me, Miss Millicent.”

“Oh, Murray!” Her tone spoke her relief. “Have you brought the coffee
and sandwiches I told Selby to order for me?”

“Yes, miss.” And the footman emerged from behind the highboy which,
with a Japanese screen, partly blocked the view of the cozy corner from
the rest of the attic.

“Just put the tray on my desk,” directed Millicent. “Has mother gone
out?”

“Yes, miss; she took Miss Dorothy in to Washington.” Murray moved
several of the desk ornaments to make room for the tray. “These ladies
called just now, Miss Millicent, but I said you were out.” And he
handed her a number of visiting-cards.

She barely glanced at the names before tossing the cards aside. “I am
thankful you did, Murray; make my excuses to callers for the next week.
I can see no one.”

“Very good, miss.” But Murray lingered, a troubled look in his eyes.
“The ’tec, Mitchell, left word that he’d be back this evening, miss,
and that he’s got to see you.”

“Oh, he has?” Millicent’s eyes sparkled with anger. “Inform Mr.
Mitchell that I decline to see him.”

“Yes, miss,” and Murray smiled broadly. “Shall I throw him out, miss?”

“Heavens, no!” exclaimed Millicent. “You might get in serious trouble
with the law. He has, I suppose,” bitterly, “the right to hang about
the scene of a crime--detectives are sanctioned human vultures.”

“He is, miss; a regular troublesome, meddlesome busybody, getting
innocent people into trouble,” responded Murray feelingly. “He thinks
he’s so bright with his ideas--I’ll idea him.” And the footman,
forgetting his customary respectful attitude in his indignation,
doubled up his fists suggestively. “How is Miss Deane feeling, miss?”

“Who, Miss Vera? She is at last getting some rest; be sure, Murray, and
tell mother and Miss Dorothy not to disturb her when they return.”

“Certainly, miss.” The footman turned to leave. “Anything else I can
get you, miss?”

“Not a thing, thank you.” But as Murray stepped around the highboy she
asked: “Any telegrams or telephones?”

“No telegrams, miss; but the telephone is going every instant, ’most
all of them are reporters.”

“Don’t give out any information, Murray,” she cautioned.

“Certainly not, miss.” And he hurried away.

Millicent waited until she heard the door at the foot of the attic
stairs close, then bent over the trunk and again took out the ledger
and carefully tore out a handful of pages. Before replacing the ledger
in its hiding-place she felt about under the false bottom until
convinced that the article she sought was still there, after which she
put back the ledger and the false bottom, rearranged the silks and
laces, put in the tray, and locked the trunk.

“If you are not going to drink your coffee, I will,” announced a voice
to her left, and a man stepped out from behind the Japanese screen. A
low cry escaped Millicent, and her hands closed spasmodically over the
pages torn from her ledger.

“Hugh!” she gasped. “Where--where have you been?”

“In town.” Wyndham stopped by the tray and, picking up the plate of
sandwiches, handed it to Millicent. She shook her head. “No?” he
queried; “then I’ll eat your share.” He poured out a cup of coffee and
drank it clear, almost at a gulp. “That’s delicious,” he declared. “I
had no idea I was so cold and hungry. Can’t I help you get up?”

But Millicent declined his proffered assistance, and rose somewhat
clumsily, both hands engaged in pressing the torn sheets into the
smallest possible compass.

“Where have you been, Hugh?” she asked again.

“Sitting on a trunk behind that screen waiting for Murray to go
downstairs,” he responded, refilling his cup.

“Then you came up to the attic just after he did?”

“In his wake, so to speak.” He shot a questioning look at her.
“Everyone appears to be out this afternoon.”

“Yes.” Millicent carefully turned her back to the dormer window and sat
down on the arm of her easy-chair. “You haven’t answered my question,
Hugh--where have you been ever since the inquest?”

“At the club.” Wyndham helped himself to another sandwich. “Awfully
sorry I couldn’t get in touch with Dorothy Deane and deliver your
message. I was sorry to disappoint you.”

“But I wasn’t disappointed. She received the message in time and came
last night.”

Wyndham seemed to have some difficulty swallowing his coffee.

“Is she still here?” he inquired as soon as he could speak.

“Yes. Mother insisted that she could run her social column from here as
well as from her boarding-house. Most of the social news is gathered
over the telephone,” explained Millicent vaguely. “And mother promised
to motor in to the office every afternoon and bring her out again in
the evening.”

Wyndham set his coffee-cup back on its saucer with small regard for its
perishable qualities.

“I might have known that she would come,” he said, half to himself;
then louder: “Intimate friends don’t have to be told when they are
needed.”

“Dorothy has so much tact--”

“Discussing me?” And Dorothy Deane appeared at Wyndham’s elbow. There
was a distinct pause as she recognized Millicent’s companion, and her
cheeks, rosy from her long motor ride in the wind, paled. “Oh!” she
ejaculated, with an attempt at lightness which deceived but one of her
hearers. “The wanderer has returned.”

“Yes--returned to you,” was Wyndham’s quiet rejoinder, and his eyes
never left her. “It was very careless of you, Dorothy, not to leave
word at the office that you were coming out here last night.”

“If I had mentioned it the managing editor would have insisted that I
cover”--she stopped and colored painfully--“new developments for the
paper.”

Wyndham transferred his attention to his cousin. “New developments,” he
repeated. “Have there been any since I left last night?”

His question did not receive an immediate reply, for Millicent had
not paid strict attention to their conversation, being absorbed in
secreting the sheets torn from her diary inside her gown.

“Nothing new,” she responded dully. “The detectives are still looking
for clues, and under that pretense poking their noses into everyone’s
concerns.”

“Let them. Who cares?” But Wyndham did not look so care-free as his
words implied. “Brainard’s death is a seven days’ wonder in Washington,
Millicent; so be prepared for all sorts of sensational stories. Our
friends will talk themselves to a standstill after a time.”

“I suppose sensational stories are to be expected,” admitted
Millicent, and she moved restlessly away from her chair. “But what are
Bruce’s friends doing?”

Wyndham looked at her quickly. “I don’t understand you--”

“I mean what steps are Bruce’s friends taking to trace the--the
murderer?”

Wyndham took a newspaper from his pocket and unfolded it.

“Brainard’s brother has offered a reward of five thousand dollars for
the arrest of the criminal,” he stated, pointing to an article in the
paper.

Dorothy broke the silence with an impatient stamp of her foot. “The
fool!” she exclaimed. “He’d better have waited until it’s proven beyond
doubt that it was a murder and not a suicide.”

The newspaper crinkled in Millicent’s hand as she took it, and Wyndham,
his eyes roving about the cozy corner, stated quietly:

“The police have found that Brainard never shaved himself, but went
every morning to a barber shop just below his apartment house.
Apparently he never owned a razor, and the police seem to think that
evidence precludes all possibility of suicide.”

“I don’t see why,” protested Millicent, looking up from the paper. “If
Bruce contemplated suicide he could have purchased a razor.”

“True, but investigation proves that he did not buy a razor at any
of the dealers handling them in Washington, or at a pawnshop. I must
admit the police have been very thorough in their search,” acknowledged
Wyndham. “It’s all in the evening papers.” He stopped for a moment,
then added steadily, “I think, no matter how terrible we find the idea,
that we must accept the theory that Brainard was murdered.”

Millicent caught her breath. “I don’t agree with you,” she retorted
obstinately. “Are we meekly to consider ourselves murderers just
because Bruce never, apparently, owned a razor?”

“You are right,” declared Dorothy, but her manner, to Wyndham’s
watchful eyes, indicated that she was clutching at a straw rather
than announcing her convictions. “Some friend might have loaned him a
razor-- Heavens! what’s that?”

A loud hail sounded up the staircase. “Millicent! Millicent!” and they
recognized Mrs. Porter’s angry accents. “Why in the world are you
staying in that cold attic? Come down at once.”

“Yes, mother.” Millicent started for the staircase, casting an
appealing look at Dorothy as she passed her, and in mute response the
latter turned to follow, but at the top of the stairs Wyndham laid a
detaining hand on her shoulder.

“Wait,” he entreated, and as he met her wistful, frightened glance he
repressed with difficulty the emotion that threatened to master him.
“Dorothy, never forget I have your interests at heart to the exclusion
of all else.”

“Hush!” She raised a trembling hand to his lips, and seizing it he
pressed it against his cheeks.

“Dear, how cold you are!” he murmured fondly, caressing her hand.

“Hush!” she reiterated. “Hugh, you must not--this is not the time--”

“It is,” with obstinate fervor. “You cannot have forgotten--”

“Forgotten?” Dorothy started as if stung. “Would to heaven I could!”

“Then you understand?” She looked at him dumbly. “You are sure you
understand?”

Through a mist of tears Dorothy studied him, and as she met his
imploring gaze a wave of tenderness sent her other hand to meet his
eager clasp; then horror of herself, of her thoughts, checked her wild
longing to throw herself into his arms, and she drew back.

“It is because I understand,” she said, steadying her voice with an
effort, “that I shall never cease to reproach myself--”

“Stop!” Wyndham held up an imperative hand. “You must not reproach
yourself. Bruce Brainard deserved what he got. I tell you he did--”
noting her expression. “It was justifiable homicide.”




CHAPTER X

THE BLACK-EDGED CARD


THE hall clock was just striking three on Thursday afternoon when
Murray stopped before the room occupied jointly by Mrs. Hall and Vera
and rapped smartly on the closed door. It was opened by Vera.

“You are wanted at the telephone, miss,” the footman announced, and she
stepped into the hall.

“Who wants me, Murray?”

“The party wouldn’t give his name.”

“Oh!” Vera’s footsteps lagged. “Did you recognize the voice?”

“No, miss. Shouldn’t wonder if it’s another ’tec,” he added gloomily.
Two whole days had passed and Mrs. Porter had not inquired for his
state of health, and even Vera had failed him as a confidante for his
latest symptoms; truly his world was out of joint. “I asked him for his
message and he said he had to speak to you personally.”

A second “Oh!” slipped from Vera, then she went downstairs in
thoughtful silence and was proceeding toward the library when Murray,
of whose presence she had grown oblivious, addressed her.

“I hopes, miss, you don’t hold yesterday’s doings in Mr. Brainard’s
room against me,” he said earnestly. “I feel very badly about it--very.”

“I realize that you were not to blame,” answered Vera. “But the
others--” Her small hand clenched. “I’d rather forget the scene,
Murray; some day, perhaps, I’ll get square with those men for the
fright they gave me.”

“I hope you will, miss.” Murray threw open the library door. “I’m
wishing Mrs. Porter would give orders not to admit them. Me and Selby
are waiting our chance.” And he smiled significantly.

“Perhaps she will.” And Vera glanced earnestly at the footman. “You
are not looking very well today, Murray; have you tried that tonic Dr.
Noyes advised?”

The footman brightened. “I have, miss, but it don’t agree with me, and
the neuralgia’s getting worse.”

“That’s too bad. Come upstairs later and I will give you a tube of
_Baume Analgésique Bengué_.” As the French name tripped off her tongue
Murray regarded her with respectful admiration.

“It sounds great, miss; I’d like to use it, thank you.” And he departed
for his pantry, his manner almost cheerful.

Left to herself Vera closed the library door and approached the
telephone with some hesitancy; she could think of no friend who would
have a reason for not giving his name to the footman and concluded
Murray was right in imagining the “party” to be a detective. Her
interview with Mitchell the day before was still fresh in her mind and
she resented the idea of further impertinence. It occurred to her, as
she toyed with the receiver, that it was a simple matter to ring off if
she found it was Mitchell at the other end of the wire; then a thought
stayed her--suppose it was Dr. Beverly Thorne waiting to speak to her?
Her expression hardened, and her voice sounded clear and cold as she
called into the mouthpiece:

“Well?”

An unknown voice replied: “Is this Nurse Vera Deane?”

Vera’s expression altered. “Yes, what is it?”

“This is Police Headquarters,” went on the voice crisply, and Vera
started. “Inspector North speaking. Have you lost anything, Miss Deane?”

“I? No.”

“Are you sure you have not lost your handbag?”

“My handbag!” Vera’s raised accents testified to her astonishment. “No,
certainly not.”

“Quite sure, Miss Deane?” insisted the inspector.

“Yes; but as a matter of form I’ll run upstairs and look. Hold the
telephone, please.” And Vera dashed up to her room and unlocked her
trunk; there lay her handbag, and pulling it open she found its
contents intact.

She was out of breath when she again reached the telephone, and had to
pause a second before speaking to the inspector.

“My handbag is upstairs, safe and sound,” she called.

“Thank you.” The inspector cleared his voice. “I called you up, Miss
Deane, because we found a handbag in a Mt. Pleasant car yesterday
afternoon containing your visiting-card, and we located you through the
Central Directory for Graduate Nurses.”

“My visiting-card?” echoed Vera, astonished. “Are you sure it was mine?”

“Oh, yes, Miss Deane, your name is engraved in full on a black-edged
card. Good afternoon.” And he rang off.

A black-edged visiting-card? Vera sat clinging to the telephone
receiver in bewilderment--it had been fully five years since she had
had a black-edged visiting-card! Suddenly her ear detected the click
of a receiver being hung up, and the faintness of the sound aroused
her. Who had been listening in on the branch telephone in Mrs. Porter’s
boudoir?

Vera went straight to the boudoir, but before she reached it Millicent
walking down the hall paused in the act of entering her own room and
called her name softly.

“Mother is lying down,” she said as Vera drew nearer. “Dorothy and
I have just left the boudoir. Come and join us in my room.” And
she held out her hand with a little affectionate gesture which was
characteristic of her. Vera smiled, and under sudden impulse kissed
her; there was something very winsome about Millicent, mere child as
she was.

“Thanks, Millicent, I’ll come and sit with you later; but first I must
take my ‘constitutional’--I haven’t had a walk for several days, and I
need the fresh air.”

Millicent stroked her cheek with tender fingers. “Perhaps the wind will
put color there,” she said. “You are not getting proper rest, Vera; for
your pallor and heavy eyes tell the story.”

Vera shook her head in dissent. “I only need fresh air; don’t let that
foolish sister of mine put ideas into your head.” She stopped abruptly
as Hugh Wyndham stepped out of his aunt’s bedroom and joined them.

“Good afternoon, Miss Deane,” he commenced cordially, but she returned
his greeting so perfunctorily that Millicent’s eyes opened wide in
surprise, and, reddening, Wyndham turned to his cousin. “Are you going
to motor in to Washington with us, Millicent? Better come; you don’t
have to leave the car or talk to anyone,” guessing the cause of her
hesitancy.

“True--” but still Millicent paused.

“I think you had better go,” put in Vera quietly, and barely glancing
at Wyndham she went to her own room.

Wyndham smiled reassuringly as he caught Millicent’s puzzled frown.
“Vera’s nerves are on edge,” he said. “I quite understand her seeming
rudeness.”

“Well, I don’t,” confessed Millicent. “Dorothy has a much sweeter
disposition than her sister, and on her account I overlook Vera’s
occasional tempers. Go and get the limousine, Hugh; Dorothy and I will
be ready in ten minutes.”

However, it was less than the prescribed ten minutes when Millicent and
Dorothy stood waiting in the lower hall for the arrival of the car, and
the latter, going into the library to collect some notes she had left
there, encountered her sister on her way out of the side entrance to
Dewdrop Inn.

“I wish you were going with us, Vera,” she exclaimed impulsively. “Do
come, there’s plenty of room in the limousine.”

“Not today, dear.” And Vera tempered the refusal with a kiss. She
glanced at the yellow copy paper Dorothy was busy stuffing inside
her muff. “Did you use the telephone in Mrs. Porter’s boudoir about
fifteen minutes ago?”

Dorothy shook her head. “No, but Mrs. Porter and then Hugh tried to
get Central.” Her sister’s reference to the boudoir recalled a recent
conversation, and she added briskly: “Vera, why are you so stand-offish
with the Porters? They are fond of you, yet you never spend any time
with them, and I think they feel it.”

Vera drew back from Dorothy’s detaining clasp. “I am here in my
professional capacity, Dorothy, and I don’t wish to intrude upon them,”
she said gently. “Better that they think me ‘stand-offish’ than say I
take advantage of ‘auld lang syne’ and push myself forward.”

“What nonsense! I declare, Vera, you are downright provoking, not to
say morbid,” protested Dorothy. “It’s the result of never getting away
from the atmosphere of the sick room. I don’t see how you stand it;
the mere sight of suffering drives me wild, and to think of poor Craig
Porter, whom I used to dance with, lying there inert--I just could not
go to his room today when Mrs. Porter asked me to do so,” she wound up.
“His changed appearance would break me down completely. How can you
watch him night after night?”

“You and Craig were great friends, whereas I never knew him in those
days.” Vera lowered her voice. “Let me see, did you first meet him when
we were in mourning?”

“No, before that, when Millicent and I were at Catonsville together. We
were great chums.” And she smiled, then winked away a sudden rush of
tears. “Poor Craig!”

“Don’t call him ‘poor’--he is rich in accomplishment,” rapped out Vera.
“Think what he has done for the Allies; get Mrs. Porter to tell you of
the honors paid Craig by the gallant Frenchmen, and never call him poor
again.”

“I wasn’t alluding to his past, but his present,” explained Dorothy,
somewhat startled by the gleam in her sister’s eyes. “I understand he
can’t utter a sound or move a muscle.”

“He can’t.” She paused as Millicent’s voice echoed down the hall. “Go,
dear, they are calling you.”

But Dorothy lingered. “Have you any errands I can attend to for you in
town?”

“N-no--wait.” Vera spoke hurriedly as steps approached. “See if you
can find my package of visiting-cards--”

“I told you months ago, Vera, that you hadn’t any left,” interrupted
Dorothy.

“Perhaps you can find an old one, even if it’s black-edged, in my
desk--”

Dorothy shook her head violently. “I can’t; I looked there at Christmas
and could not find any kind of a card. Coming right away, Murray,” as
the footman appeared. “Do you wish me to order some cards struck off?”

“Yes,” called Vera. “Pay for it with the money I gave you yesterday.”
And Dorothy disappeared with Murray in attendance.

Vera waited until convinced that the limousine must have driven off,
then, tossing the blue cape with its small picturesque red cross about
her shoulders, she opened the side door and, skirting the back of the
house, walked swiftly past the garage. Passing down a lane she crossed
a field and went up a path leading to the “side hill,” as that part of
the Porter plantation was called.

The cold and wind of the preceding day had abated, and Vera took deep
breaths of the delicious, invigorating air, as, deserting the path,
she made her way among the trees and dead underbrush to a clearing
high up on the hillside, which, except from above, was invisible from
the path she had quitted some moments before. A huge mica rock, known
locally as Diamond Rock, occupied most of the clearing, and Vera
exclaimed with pleasure as she caught the rainbow effects produced by
the winter sunshine on its surface. Stepping in clefts in the rock she
slowly mounted to the top and made herself comfortable. Once settled
on her perch, she turned her attention to the panoramic view of the
Potomac River far below her and the surrounding countryside.

But she barely saw the landscape, her thoughts being concentrated upon
the Porter limousine and its occupants. Too late she regretted that she
had not accompanied Millicent and Dorothy to Washington. But when her
sister had asked her, a feeling of abhorrence had swept over her at
the prospect of being inclosed in a small space and listening to their
chatter. Her desire to be out in the open and by herself had gained the
mastery; for an hour at least she could wrestle with her problems and
decide on the future. She resolutely determined to put all thought
of the past out of her mind, but it was a greater task than she had
imagined--the past would not bury its dead!

Great drops of perspiration beaded her forehead as incidents of the
past three days rose before her: her first glimpse of Bruce Brainard
in bed Monday night--the tragedy--the inquest--the detectives-- Vera
plucked at her handkerchief and pressed it against her forehead and her
cheeks, rubbing the latter vigorously. She must not think of the past;
the future concerned her more intimately.

She must decide on a course of action before Detective Mitchell devised
other methods to trap her, and remembrance of the scene in Brainard’s
bedroom twenty-four hours before brought a hot flush of resentment in
its train. She would square accounts with the detective before many
days had passed, and her pretty teeth met with a determined snap. What
troubled her was Beverly Thorne. She wished that she might dismiss him
from her mind; then shivered involuntarily as she grudgingly admitted
to herself that she feared his quick intelligence, his ever-searching
eyes and cynical smile. It was an evil fate that had thrown him across
her path. As the thought crossed her mind, she saw someone moving in
and out among the trees to her right. The newcomer was making his way
down the hillside, and she watched him idly.

The man kept a zigzag course and she was unable to get a good look at
his face as, with cap pulled down over his forehead and the collar of
his Norfolk jacket turned up, he seemed intently scanning the ground,
pausing now and then to watch a switch which he carried loosely before
him in both hands. Suddenly he stopped and, facing in her direction
looked up long and earnestly into the bare branches of a tall tree.
Vera’s breath forsook her as she recognized Beverly Thorne. Had she
conjured him to appear?

After testing a lower branch of the tree with his weight Thorne
transferred his attention to the cleft stick in his hand and strode
onward. He was within a few yards of Vera before he discovered her
presence. There followed a momentary hesitation on his part, then he
advanced to the rock and bowed gravely.

“You have caught me trespassing,” he began. “What is the forfeit?”

Vera pointed in the direction he had come where a wire fence could
be seen in the distance; she knew that placards placed at intervals
announced: “No trespassing under penalty of the law.”

“As a ‘J. P.’ you must be aware of the penalty exacted for trespass,”
she answered, preparing to rise.

He noticed her movement, and raised his hand. “Don’t let me drive you
away,” he begged, appreciating to the full the charming picture she
made perched on the rainbow-hued rock, her blue cape and its red cross
in striking contrast to the dull colors of the woods. “I am going.”

His announcement, however, while it had the effect of inducing Vera to
remain where she was, proved a mere figure of speech, as he did not
move from his place by the rock. At the end of a long silence Vera
could not restrain her impatience, and he caught the antagonism she
strove but faintly to conceal.

“Miss Deane”--Thorne skirted the rock and came closer to her--“I am
afraid you harbor resentment against me. I assure you that I had no
hand in the trick played on you by Detective Mitchell yesterday.”

“Your presence with the detective in the spare bedroom leads me to
think otherwise,” she replied coldly.

“I can explain,” he began, but her raised hand stayed him.

“Why attempt an explanation, doctor?” she asked, and her disdain showed
so plainly that he colored with indignation.

“Because I desire to set myself right in your eyes,” he answered.

“With what object?”

His eyes did not fall before the challenge in hers, while a warm, sunny
smile lightened the severe lines of his stubborn chin and determined
mouth.

“Object--matrimony,” he retorted, and she detected the twinkle
in his eyes and the faint mockery discernible in his voice. Her
resolve was instantly taken; she would meet him on the ground he had
chosen--woman’s wit against man’s intelligence was a game old when
Methuselah was young. She rose and dropped Thorne a half courtesy,
balancing herself on the rock with graceful ease.

“On so short an acquaintance your jest is flattering, but ill-timed.”
She paused, then added, “I thank you--and decline.”

“Wait.” He laid down the switch of witch-hazel and drew nearer. “Our
acquaintance is not so short; it commenced six years ago in New York.”

Vera stared at him intently. “I fail to recollect,” she began, and
paused uncertainly.

Instead of answering verbally he took out his leather wallet and,
searching among its contents, finally produced a black-edged
visiting-card. On the reverse side were traced the words:

  February 14--In grateful remembrance.




CHAPTER XI

MRS. PORTER GROWS INQUISITIVE


A SILENCE followed, so heavy as to be felt, then Vera took the
black-edged card and, reversing it, read the engraved name. A rush of
memories obliterated the bleak countryside. In its place she saw a busy
city street, a swaying figure, a cry for help, the later clang of the
emergency ambulance--and the last agonizing parting from her beloved
mother. She had been conscious of the aid rendered by the skilful
hospital interne, but her mother had focused her attention to the
exclusion of all else. After the funeral she had sent a present with
her card “In grateful remembrance” to the city hospital authorities,
asking them to see that it reached the surgeon who had attended her
mother.

A sudden rush of tears almost blinded Vera, and the card fluttered to
the rock unheeded.

“Dr. Thorne”--her voice was not fully under control and a quiver crept
into it--“I did not know--I had no idea--” She stammered and broke down.

“Don’t.” Thorne swung himself up on the rock beside her and gazed at
her with contrition. “Please don’t cry.”

But the injunction was hardly needed, for Vera pulled herself together,
and except for a few tears which she winked violently away, she had
herself in hand again as she faced him.

“The card--” she commenced, but he did not allow her to finish the
sentence.

“The card,” he echoed, stooping to pick it up, “would never have
been shown you except that I knew of no other way to break down your
unfriendly attitude to me. Please,” coloring warmly under his tan,
“never allude to it again.”

Vera looked at him long and steadily. She saw a well-set-up figure with
the unmistakable air of good breeding; her eyes traveled slowly up to
his face, and paused there, meeting the steady gaze of the somewhat
quizzical gray eyes. His hair, slightly silvered at the temples, had
a wave in it which suggested that under due provocation it might curl
rather attractively, without altering the somewhat grave air of the
professional man. Vera held out her hand. “Let me have the card?” she
asked.

But instead of complying with her request he slipped the card into his
vest pocket. “I’ve carried it so long,” he said softly, drawing closer.
“Don’t deprive me of the card.” And as Vera caught the wistful appeal
in his eyes a hitherto unknown shyness overpowered her, and she stood
tongue-tied. Thorne’s next words, however, brought her back to her
surroundings with a jump. “Good heavens, Miss Deane!” he exclaimed as
he caught a full view of her face and noted the dark shadows under her
eyes and her hectic flush. “You must take care of yourself or you will
be ill in bed.”

“All I need is sleep,” protested Vera, but Thorne shook his head in
dissent.

“Consult your physician,” he advised, a trifle sternly. “With your
training you should know better than to trifle with your health. You
are on the point of a nervous breakdown.”

Vera smiled. “You exaggerate,” she said, with an attempt to speak
lightly. “I do not need medical attendance. The fresh air this
afternoon has done me good, and now,” moving forward to the edge of the
rock, “I must return and catch a few hours’ sleep before going on duty.”

Without a word, but with his jaw set at an obstinate angle, Thorne
scrambled down the rock, then turned back to assist Vera, only to find
her at his elbow. She smiled up at him, slightly breathless from her
exertions. Her face was dangerously close, and as Thorne looked deep
into her lovely eyes his pulse lost a beat, then raced on. Hardly
conscious of his action he clasped her hand in his.

“Vera--Miss Deane,” he stammered, and his voice shook with feeling.
“What madness led you to become so entangled in Bruce Brainard’s
murder?”

Vera drew back as if struck, and jerked her hand free. “_You_ are mad!”
she retorted vehemently. “I am in no way concerned in the tragedy.”

There was an instant’s pause, then Thorne picked up his witch-hazel
stick and stood aside, balancing it in his fingers. With a slight
inclination of her head Vera turned to leave him, but she had gone but
a few steps when he overtook her.

“I seem always to give offense,” he said despairingly. “I’m an unlucky
devil; never could express myself properly where I feel the most. Just
now, Miss Deane, I only meant--” A pause followed as he sought the word
he wanted. Vera’s sidelong glance convinced her that he appeared as
perturbed as his speech implied. “I only meant to offer my services.”

“As a physician?”

He flushed at her tone. “Yes, should you require medical attendance.”

“Thank you.” Vera stole another look at him under lowered lids, but
his air of detached, friendly interest baffled her. What motive had
inspired his burst of passion a scant five minutes before? Vera’s
eyes closed as if in pain, and there danced before her mental vision
the words: “February 14--In grateful remembrance.” Was Thorne sincere
in his proffer of friendship or was he still antagonistic to her and
trading upon a woman’s sentiment to mask his true feelings? Pshaw! It
was only fair to suspend judgment. It was the least that she could do
in view of Thorne’s past kindness--but why had he pocketed the card so
hastily? Vera opened her eyes to find Thorne anxiously regarding her.
With perceptible hesitancy she took up the conversation where she had
left off. “Perhaps when you call to see Mr. Porter I will get you to
prescribe for me.”

“I am at your service.” Thorne bowed courteously. “May I accompany you
as far as the lane?”

“Certainly.” And keeping step as much as the trees permitted they
finally reached the path and walked briskly down it. Vera, who had
been thinking intently, was the first to break the silence. “Have you
studied law as well as medicine, doctor?” she asked. “And is that why
they made you justice of the peace?”

“Not entirely,” he responded, as he opened the gate of the lane. “I
have a smattering of the law, and a passion for criminal investigation.”

“Indeed?” Vera was unable to repress a start, and she quickly covered
her agitation by pointing to the cleft switch which Thorne still
carried balanced lightly in both hands. The switch, apparently of its
own volition, had assumed a perpendicular position. “Why are you
carrying that twig?”

“Looking for water; I want to sink an artesian well, and this little
wand points the way in my investigation.”

“Oh! But you cannot hope to build the well on Mrs. Porter’s property.”

Thorne laughed heartily. “Hardly; Mrs. Porter would never give me
permission to do so.”

“Then why waste time trespassing on her property?”

Again Thorne laughed, but a shadow lurked in his eyes as he glanced
keenly at his questioner. “Frankly, I have two investigations under
way,” he acknowledged. “One to locate a spring, and the other to
discover who murdered Bruce Brainard.”

Vera’s back was toward the setting sun, and her face was in shadow. “If
you spend your time looking for wells you will not solve the mystery of
Mr. Brainard’s death,” she said with slow emphasis.

“I’m not so sure of that.” Thorne spun the cleft stick about in his
fingers. “Are we not told that truth lies at the bottom of a well?
Good-by.” And lifting his cap he vaulted the fence which separated his
property from the Porter estate and disappeared behind some barns.

Vera did not at once resume her walk to the house, and when she did
so her usually light footstep was dragging and her expression more
troubled.

“Has Miss Millicent returned, Murray?” she asked on entering the
butler’s pantry a few minutes later.

“No, miss.” And Vera went wearily into the deserted library.

The rooms, with shades and curtains partly drawn and the fire on the
hearth reduced to smoldering embers, was not conducive to cheerfulness,
and Vera shivered as she threw herself down on the wide leather couch
and pillowed her head on one of its numerous cushions.

“I wish I’d gone to Washington with Dorothy,” she muttered, snuggling
down under the warm folds of a carriage robe she had brought from the
coat closet. “I could have stood their chatter better than--” Her
thoughts supplied the name her lips did not utter, and Mrs. Porter,
gliding noiselessly into the library, never dreamed that Beverly
Thorne’s domineering personality was keeping her beautiful nurse from
peaceful slumber.

Mrs. Porter, her hands full of papers, went directly to the fireplace.
Poking the embers into a feeble blaze, she squatted down on a footstool
and placed the letters she carried one by one into the flames. Vera,
lying with eyes closed, and buried in her own thoughts, did not become
aware of her presence until the clang of a fire iron which Mrs. Porter
inadvertently let slip aroused her. A certain furtiveness in Mrs.
Porter’s movements checked Vera’s impulse to address her, and she
watched her employer in a growing quandary. Should she let Mrs. Porter
know that she was not alone in the room, or was she already aware of
her, Vera’s, presence? It was highly probable that the latter was
the case, as Mrs. Porter had to pass near the lounge to get to the
fireplace, and Vera resolutely closed her eyes and did her best to drop
off to sleep.

Mrs. Porter, with painstaking care, opened each letter and scanned it
intently before depositing it in the fire. Her features looked pinched
and worn in the ruddy glow from the burning paper. She faltered as
her busy fingers came at last to a handful of twisted papers, and
it took her some moments to smooth out the torn sheets and place
each separately on the red-hot embers. The last sheet followed its
predecessor before the first had been quite consumed, and Mrs. Porter
shuddered as the sheet, like some tortured body, twisted about, then
stiffened, and the words it bore showed in bold relief:

  Tuesday morning--Saw Alan. God help us both.

A flame shot upward across the sheet, and the scorching trail left no
record in the ashes on the hearth.

Mrs. Porter poked among the embers until convinced that each scrap of
paper had been burned, then rising stiffly she gazed uneasily about
the library, letting her eyes finally rest on Vera. She studied the
girl’s perfect profile with appraising keenness before seating herself
in front of the center table and picking up her pen. But the words she
sought to put on paper would not come, and she threw down her pen with
a pettish exclamation; the continued silence in the room was getting on
her nerves.

“Vera!” she called shrilly. “Wake up.”

Even before she had finished speaking Vera was on her feet, and a
second more was standing by the older woman’s side, laying a soothing
hand on her trembling fingers.

“What is it, Mrs. Porter?” she asked. “What can I do for you?”

“Talk to me.” Mrs. Porter patted the chair next to hers and Vera sank
into it. “I must have some diversion or I shall go mad!” And the gleam
in her eyes lent color to her words. “Gossip with me.”

“About what--politics?” mentioning the topic farthest from her
thoughts; she was too nervously inclined to discuss personal matters.

“Politics?” repeated Mrs. Porter. “You’ll find no argument there, Vera;
I’ve lived too long in Washington not to float with the tide--mine
are always Administration politics. But”--with a sudden sharp glance
at her companion under lowered lids--“I am always interested in the
tattle-tales of Cupid. Your sister Dorothy and my nephew Hugh don’t
seem to be as good friends as formerly; what has estranged them?”

Vera’s fingers closed tightly over the arm of her chair and her answer
was slow in coming. “Oh, they have frequent bickerings.” She shrugged
her shoulders. “Perhaps the present tiff is more serious--for the
moment.”

Mrs. Porter looked relieved. “I hope you are right, for I have quite
set my heart on that being a match. Do you know,” in a sudden burst
of confidence very foreign to her usually reserved nature, “I was
beginning to fear that Bruce Brainard’s horrible death might have been
at the bottom of the estrangement.”

“Oh, Mrs. Porter!” Vera’s shocked expression drew instant explanation
and Mrs. Porter, in her excitement, failed to observe Vera’s growing
agitation.

“The atmosphere of this place since the tragedy distorts every action,
every idea!” she began incoherently. “I do my utmost to forget it,
but I can think of nothing else. And you found Bruce dead on Tuesday
morning--only forty-eight hours ago!”

“It seems a lifetime!” confessed Vera wearily.

“And that stupid detective has done nothing,” fumed Mrs. Porter. “In
the face of no evidence, he still thinks Bruce was murdered.”

“I don’t catch your meaning.” And Vera looked as puzzled as she felt.

“Why, if Bruce had been murdered there would have been some clue;
whereas, the lack of evidence against anyone proves that Bruce must
have committed suicide.”

“Where did he get the razor?” The question almost leaped from Vera, and
she bent forward in her eagerness to catch the other’s answer.

“Brought it with him.” But Mrs. Porter’s eyes had shifted and Vera
could not read their expression. “Listen, Vera, let us argue this
matter out--I’m tired of beating about the bush!” Mrs. Porter’s air
of candor would have convinced anyone not familiar with her moods and
tenses--Vera gazed at her and remained discreetly silent. “I know that
every door and window in the floor and the cellar were locked, because
I accompanied Hugh when he went the rounds to see that the house was
securely fastened on Monday night. Even the police admit that no one
broke into the house.”

“Yet they contend that Bruce Brainard was murdered.” Vera spoke almost
without her own volition, and bit her lip until the blood came, but the
words could not be recalled.

Mrs. Porter’s hand flew to her heart as if to still its rapid beating.
“Yes,” she agreed dully, the false animation of a moment before
deserting her. “Who in this household would have a motive for killing
Bruce?”

Her question met with no response, and as the pause lengthened they
avoided looking at each other; twice Mrs. Porter tried to speak, but
her voice failed her, and she rose uncertainly to her feet. Vera sat as
if carved from marble, and even the opening of the library door failed
to draw her attention.

“I beg your pardon, Mrs. Porter,” said Mrs. Hall, advancing toward the
desk. “I think you had better send for a physician for Mr. Craig.”

“Craig! Is he worse?” Mrs. Porter turned imploring eyes on the day
nurse.

“I don’t like his symptoms,” replied Mrs. Hall, noncommittally. “And I
dare not take the responsibility of treating him until a physician has
seen him. Please don’t delay in sending for one.”

By that time Vera was on her feet. “Can I be of assistance?” she asked,
addressing Mrs. Hall.

“Not now; perhaps later,” responded the day nurse. “Mrs. Porter,
please tell me whom you desire called in, now that Dr. Noyes is no
longer here, and Miss Deane can telephone for him.”

Mrs. Porter turned an agonized face toward them. “No, I’ll speak to
Dr. Thorne myself. He has been highly recommended to me and is the
nearest physician this side of Alexandria. I never expected,” she added
bitterly, picking up the telephone, “to ask any of his family to assist
me, but Craig’s need is paramount. Don’t wait, Mrs. Hall.” And the day
nurse hastened back to her patient.

Vera was on the point of following her when Mrs. Porter signed to her
to wait, and she listened with the keenest attention to the one-sided
conversation on the telephone. Mrs. Porter finally hung up the receiver
in a rage.

“His servant’s a fool!” she declared, laying an impatient finger on the
bell which connected with the servants’ hall. “He doesn’t know where
Dr. Thorne is or when he will be back. Ah, Murray,” as that worthy
appeared, “go at once to Thornedale and find Dr. Thorne and bring him
here,” she wound up, sinking down on the couch, and a burst of tears
relieved her overwrought feelings. “Oh, Craig, Craig--my dear, dear
boy!”

Murray, seeing Vera spring to Mrs. Porter’s side, vanished, and, being
impressed with the urgency of his errand, never stopped to get his
overcoat, and in a hatless condition made his way across the fields. He
was just entering the carriage drive to Thornedale when he descried the
doctor coming along the highway, and he started forward to meet him.
He was almost within hailing distance when a man stepped from behind a
clump of bushes and called him by name.

The footman stared at the newcomer as if unable to believe his eyes.

“So it’s yourself!” he ejaculated, walking slowly around him. “And who
do you wish to see, sir?”

“Miss Vera Deane, _of course_.” Both the words and the emphasis were
not lost on Beverly Thorne, whose rapid approach had gone unnoticed,
and he contemplated the newcomer with mixed feelings as he strode past
them, Murray never even seeing him.




CHAPTER XII

DETECTIVE MITCHELL ASKS QUESTIONS


CONTRARY to Vera’s idea of a “chatty” motor drive into Washington,
Millicent and her two guests made the trip almost in silence. Hugh
Wyndham, alone, seemed to find the silence irksome, but his efforts to
force conversation met with no encouragement and he finally lapsed into
silence. It was not until the limousine had crossed Long Bridge and was
bowling along the asphalted streets of Washington that Millicent broke
her moody silence.

“Do you wish to go direct to the _Tribune_ office, Dorothy?” she asked,
picking up the speaking-tube.

Dorothy consulted her wrist watch. “Perhaps I had better; it is
later than I thought. If I get through my work early we can stop at
Brentano’s on the way home.”

“Let me go there for you,” suggested Wyndham. “What book do you wish?”

“No book, thanks; Vera wants me to order a hundred of her
visiting-cards struck off.” As she spoke Dorothy opened her handbag and
taking out her purse offered a Treasury bill to Wyndham. He waved it
aside.

“Pay for the cards when they are finished,” he exclaimed.

“Please take it,” insisted Dorothy, closing her bag with a snap. “Vera
objects to charge accounts.”

“If you wish me to.” Wyndham pocketed the money just as the limousine
drew up at the curb, and throwing aside the lap-robe he jumped out and
assisted Dorothy to the sidewalk before the chauffeur could leave his
seat. “Are you coming with me to Brentano’s, Millicent?” he asked,
seeing that his cousin made no move to leave the car.

Millicent contented herself with a nod of assent and Wyndham hastened
after Dorothy who, not waiting, had already entered the office
building. Wyndham’s voice brought her to a stand near the elevator
shaft.

“Dorothy”--he lowered his voice and drew her to one side of the
corridor where there was no danger of their conversation being
overheard--“I implore you not to distrust me.”

“I don’t, Hugh.”

“Then why do you avoid me--why refuse to see me alone?” with suppressed
vehemence. “Your behavior, Dorothy, hurts me cruelly.”

“You are mistaken.” She glanced upward, and her clear eyes did not
falter in their direct gaze, while a wave of color mantled her cheeks.
“I think of you--dream of you--” She checked herself as she saw the
passion which lighted his eyes. “This is no place--go,” as two men
approached. “Don’t keep Millicent waiting.” And with that parting
injunction she turned to greet the city editor.

“You are just in time, Miss Deane,” exclaimed the city editor, as
Wyndham walked away. “Mr. Reynolds,” indicating his companion, “has a
new lot of photographs for you to choose from for the Sunday paper.
Here’s the elevator.” And hardly giving the outgoing passengers an
opportunity to leave, the energetic city editor hustled Dorothy and
the photographer into the elevator, and on arriving at their floor
he accompanied them into Dorothy’s office. “Have you a photograph of
Millicent Porter?” he asked, taking up the prints which Reynolds laid
on Dorothy’s desk.

“No,” was the photographer’s glum response. “Mr. Wyndham called at the
studio early Tuesday morning and forbade us giving copies to the press.”

The city editor dropped the prints in disgust and turned to Dorothy.
“Are you sure you have no picture of Miss Porter in your desk?”

“I am positive that I have not.” Dorothy pulled up a chair and examined
the glossy photographs. “Perhaps my predecessor used one of Miss
Porter. If so, the cut will be on file with the others.”

“Her name is in the card index, but the cut itself is missing,”
grumbled the city editor. “Wish I knew who took it. I’d fire him. We
haven’t had such a sensational murder as Brainard’s in years, and I
can’t lay my hands on a single photograph of the principals involved.”

“Who are chiefly involved?” Dorothy’s face was screened by the large
print which she was studying with interest.

“Chiefly involved?” The city editor knitted his brows. “Well, I
should say all the Porter household is involved more or less, but I
believe that English doctor, Noyes, who skipped out of the country
so opportunely, knows a thing or two which might aid in tracing the
murderer. And,” he added, warming to his subject, “if I’d been on that
coroner’s jury I would have made Millicent Porter talk.”

Dorothy smiled with her lips only, her eyes fixed steadily on the
pretty woman in the photograph. “Possibly the jury found Miss Porter
had nothing to say,” she remarked.

“Nothing to say? A girl whose fiancé has just been murdered?” The city
editor laughed loudly as if enjoying a huge joke. “Miss Deane, you’re
dippy.”

“Perhaps; but I fail to see a reason for dragging Miss Porter further
into the limelight. Why center publicity about her?”

“Because she’s good material for a ‘sob’ story, if nothing more; but I
have a hunch”--he lowered his voice to a confidential pitch--“that she
is going to be the big feature of the case before the Brainard mystery
is cleared up. So long,” and he left the room.

Reynolds heaved a sigh of relief which was echoed by Dorothy. “Now we
can get along with our work, Miss Deane; how will these photographs do
for a layout of the leaders of the ultra-smart set?” placing a number
of prints together; and Dorothy soon became absorbed in making her
selections.

After the departure of the photographer, twenty minutes later, Dorothy
wrote her directions on the back of each photograph and had just
completed her task when the office boy entered and laid a “flimsy” on
her desk.

“Take these photographs to the engraver and tell him I must have the
cuts by tomorrow afternoon,” she directed, and picked up the “flimsy.”
It proved to be a garbled account of Millicent Porter sent out by one
of the news agencies and laid great stress upon her wealth and the
social prominence of her family. Dorothy frowned as she crumpled it
in her hand, then thinking better of her action she smoothed out the
“flimsy” and carefully pigeonholed it.

Dorothy’s thoughts were far from her work as she mechanically
carried out the daily office routine. A talk with a White House
usher elicited the news that the President was playing golf and
might go to the theater that night; a chat with a confidential clerk
in the Department of State provided her with the list of guests
at a diplomatic dinner to be given that night by the Secretary of
State; but her other telephone calls drew blank; and Dorothy, after
looking over the meager items chronicled in the social columns of the
afternoon papers, welcomed the ring of the telephone. It proved to be
a long-distance call from Albany, N. Y., giving her the information
that a Congressman’s wife was receiving at the Governor’s reception,
describing the gown which she would wear, and stating that she desired
to have it fully written up in the _Morning Tribune_.

Half an hour later Dorothy was correcting her typewritten copy when
the door was jerked unceremoniously open, and the city editor walked
in, followed by Detective Mitchell. Dorothy’s heart sank at sight of
the city editor’s aggressive air; previous encounters had given her an
inkling of his bullying disposition, and the presence of Mitchell did
not look propitious.

“See here, Miss Deane, why haven’t you informed me that you are
visiting Millicent Porter?” demanded the city editor.

“I did not think the news would interest you.” Dorothy laid down
her copy and nodded coolly to the detective. “Good afternoon, Mr.
Mitchell.”

“Interest me?” stormed the city editor. “Here I’ve been trying vainly
to get a line on what’s doing out at the Porter mansion; every reporter
refused admission, and you staying there--” He swallowed hard. “Write a
fifteen-hundred-word human interest story for tomorrow’s paper, get an
interview if possible from Mrs. Porter and her daughter--but remember,
I want a story with meat in it--and don’t you come back to this office
without it.” And his clenched fist, descending on the desk by way of
emphasis, jarred the scissors and paste pot out of their accustomed
places.

Dorothy’s expression changed. “I must remind you, Mr. Harding, that I
am the head of my department and responsible to the managing editor
only. If you desire to detail me to a special assignment you must speak
to him first.” There was truth in what she said, and Harding hesitated.
Dorothy turned to Mitchell. “Do you wish to see me?”

Mitchell cast an amused glance at the indignant city editor whose
florid complexion rivaled his red necktie in point of vivid color, then
pulled forward a chair and made himself comfortable. Harding glanced
about, and, finding no other chair in the small room, propped himself
against the side of the desk and the wall.

“Go ahead, Mitchell,” he said pugnaciously. “Tell her what you told me.”

Dorothy glanced from one to the other, her calm demeanor covering a
rapidly beating heart. What had the detective confided to Harding? What
had he really discovered relating to Bruce Brainard’s death?

Mitchell took a paper from his pocket and, reaching up, bent the
portable electric lamp so that its light fell directly upon the
desk and incidentally shone full in Dorothy’s face. If she detected
the maneuver she gave no indication of it as she leaned back in her
revolving-chair and waited politely for the detective to speak.

“Miss Deane, you understand wireless?” questioned Mitchell.

“I do.”

“And Miss Millicent Porter also?”

“Yes. We were both taught wireless at the National Service School, the
woman’s preparedness camp at Chevy Chase, Maryland.”

“Have you kept up wireless instruction since then?”

“Yes, we both took the commercial examination last fall.”

“And you can operate the marine wireless at the Porter mansion?”

Dorothy looked at Mitchell steadily. What was he driving at?

“Yes, we have practiced on the wireless there,” she acknowledged.

“When was the marine wireless outfit installed there?”

“I don’t know.”

“Last summer?” persisted Mitchell, annoyed by the curtness of her tone.

“Oh, no, before then.”

“Then it was not erected solely for Miss Porter’s benefit?”

“No. I believe Mr. Craig Porter had it installed before he went abroad
to join the French aviation corps, and Mrs. Porter never had it taken
down.”

“I see.” Mitchell stroked his chin thoughtfully. “Do you know the
instrument’s sending capacity, Miss Deane?”

She thought before answering. “I believe about one hundred miles, but
I am not certain. Miss Porter and I generally used the instrument to
receive messages.”

“But you have sent messages?”

“Yes, occasionally.”

“To whom did you send a message last night, Miss Deane?”

Dorothy’s reply was prompt. “To no one.”

Mitchell smiled, not unkindly. “I’m afraid denial won’t do any good. I
saw you and Miss Porter in the attic at the Porter mansion last night.”

“You saw us?” Dorothy’s surprise was unmistakable, and Mitchell
chuckled. “Where were you?”

“In Dr. Thorne’s dining-room, the window of which overlooks that side
of the Porter mansion.” There was a brief pause, and then Mitchell
repeated his former question. “To whom did you send a message last
night?”

“I sent no wireless message last night,” reiterated Dorothy.

“Oh, so it was Miss Porter.” A self-satisfied smile crossed the
detective’s lips, and Dorothy’s heart sank as she racked her brain in
an effort to puzzle out the meaning of his questioning her on such a
subject. What had the wireless to do with his investigation of the
mystery surrounding Bruce Brainard’s death? She sat forward in her
chair as Mitchell commenced speaking again. “I saw you both in the
attic earlier in the evening, as you did not pull down the shades.
About midnight I saw one of you return, but as only a candle was
burning near the window at that time, I could not be certain whether it
was you or Miss Porter.” He paused and looked inquiringly at Dorothy.

“You say it was about midnight? Are you quite certain, Mr. Mitchell,
that you did not fall asleep and dream all this?”

“I did not,” answered Mitchell shortly, ruffled by her manner of
receiving his news. “In proof of it the Arlington Radio Station caught
Miss Porter’s message, but not the name of the person she was sending
it to.”

“Ah, indeed?” skeptically. “And what was the message?”

“‘Peace and tranquillity.’”

Dorothy’s reception of his answer startled the detective--she burst
into peal on peal of laughter.

“Excuse me,” she stammered as soon as she could speak. “You were so
serious and--and--” Again she laughed whole-heartedly. “You have
unearthed a mare’s nest, Mr. Mitchell.”

Mitchell’s rising color testified to his displeasure. “Kindly tell me
the meaning of those three words, Miss Deane,” he demanded.

“They bear the customary meaning attributed to them,” retorted Dorothy,
her eyes still twinkling. “The phrase you quoted is frequently used by
Miss Porter and myself for practice work in sending messages.”

The detective watched her in angry silence, then started to address her
just as the door was pushed quietly open and Hugh Wyndham stopped on
the threshold. Neither man observed him as they faced Dorothy, their
backs turned to the entrance.

“Your explanation is very pat, Miss Deane,” said Mitchell. “Perhaps you
can also explain what it was Miss Millicent Porter threw into an unused
well late yesterday afternoon.”

Dorothy gazed silently at her questioner, then her glance traveled
upward until it rested on Wyndham, and her breath forsook her. The
gathering wrath in Wyndham’s eyes as he took a menacing step toward
the unconscious detective acted like a douche of cold water on
Dorothy’s benumbed wits.

“I can explain,” she announced, her voice quivering with subdued
excitement. “Miss Porter dreads publicity. She threw a cut into the
well, the only cut ever made from one of her photographs, so that her
picture would not appear in a newspaper.”

“I-n-deed,” drawled Mitchell. “And where did Miss Porter get
this--eh--cut?”

“I gave it to her.”

Her words brought a bellow from Harding. “What! do you mean to say you
stole the cut from this office and gave it to Miss Porter?”

“I did.”

Harding pounded the desk. “Where’s your honesty?” he roared. “Where’s
your loyalty to the newspaper that employs you?”

“My loyalty belongs to the paper so long as it does not conflict with
my loyalty to my friends,” answered Dorothy. “As for my honesty--I have
paid for the cut.”

“D-mn the money! It isn’t a question of money,” he retorted thickly.
“You are fired, understand--fired!”

Dorothy was on her feet instantly. “It is the managing editor who
dismisses me, Mr. Harding,” she reminded him, and turned with dignity
to Mitchell. “As I must turn in my copy, Mr. Mitchell, you will have to
excuse me.” And closing her roll-top desk she picked up her coat and
hat and joined Wyndham in the city room, where he had preceded her. She
tossed her manuscript to a copy reader, and, after exchanging a word
with the foreman, left the office, Wyndham in tow.

The Porter limousine had driven off but a scant five minutes when
Inspector North entered the Tribune building and went direct to the
managing editor’s office, only to be told that he would not be there
until after dinner. The inspector was making for the society editor’s
office when he spied the city editor emerging from it.

“Hello, Harding,” he hailed. “Miss Deane in?”

“No, just gone.” Harding kicked a chair out of his way as a slight vent
to his feelings. “Anything I can do for you, Inspector?”

“Yes. Tell me, is Miss Dorothy Deane in mourning?”

“Mourning? H--l, no! Say--” But the inspector waved a friendly
farewell as he hastened toward the elevator shaft, and Harding
completed his sentence with another oath.

Inspector North was more fortunate in his next call, and found the
Chief of the Secret Service comfortably seated in his office in the
Treasury Department.

“I don’t usually bring ‘lost and found’ articles to you, Chief,” he
explained, taking a chair by the desk and drawing a leather handbag out
of his overcoat pocket. “But I’m puzzled. What do you think of this?”

Chief Connor turned the bag over and over. “Good leather,” he remarked.
“Unmarked. Where did you get the bag?”

“It was turned in by a conductor on the Mt. Pleasant line who found it
in his car. Open it, Chief.”

Connor started to do so and the catch caught, then as he used more
strength it flew open with such suddenness that half its contents
rolled to the floor. Inspector North instantly retrieved each article.

“Is there nothing but money?” asked Connor, contemplating the Treasury
notes which his companion laid on his desk.

“That’s all, except this.” And the inspector handed him a black-edged
card. Connor read the block lettering with interest:

  Miss Vera Deane

  Graduate nurse

Making no further comment, Chief Connor sorted each bill in its proper
denomination, and in a few minutes had several neat piles of gold and
greenback certificates of varying amounts stacked in front of him.
Taking up a microscope he examined each bill, testing the quality of
the paper between his fingers, and in certain instances he jotted down
the check letter, series, and charter numbers.

“Has Miss Deane notified Headquarters of the loss of her bag?” he
asked finally. “There is quite a tidy sum of money here--three hundred
dollars.”

“So I observed,” answered Inspector North dryly. “No, Miss Deane has
not notified Headquarters; on the contrary, I telephoned her of its
present whereabouts, and she denied ownership of the bag.”

“Indeed!” Connor sat erect and pressed his desk buzzer, and an
assistant appeared from an inner office. “Examine these bills, Neale,”
he directed, and waited until the operative had disappeared with the
money. “So Miss Deane denies the bag is hers. Did you tell her its
contents?”

“No. I only said it contained her black-edged visiting-card.” North
hesitated. “Miss Deane’s sister is society editor of the _Tribune_. I
have just learned at the office that the young ladies are not now in
mourning. From another source I heard that Judge Deane, their father,
died about seven years ago and his wife did not long survive him. Of
course it is possible that some friend of hers had one of her old
visiting-cards instead of her own in the bag, especially as Miss Deane
declares her bag is in her own possession at home.”

“That is a plausible theory, but--” It was Connor’s turn to hesitate,
and the inspector broke the silence.

“It is strange that the real owner doesn’t claim the bag, considering
that its disappearance involves the loss of three hundred dollars,” he
said thoughtfully. “It’s that puzzle which has brought me to you. Few
people lose such a sum of money in a street car without raising a fuss
about it.”

“My dear North, the presence of the money is obviously the reason why
the bag goes unclaimed,” retorted Connor, and the inspector leaned
forward excitedly.

“You mean--?”

“That many of the bank notes are counterfeit. The owner of that bag
will be the last to claim it. Well, Neale, what have you to report?”

The operative advanced to the desk and placed the Treasury notes again
on the desk with memorandum attached.

“One hundred and seventy-five dollars of this is counterfeit.” Neale
selected a ten-dollar note and showed it to Chief Connor. “This is
apparently printed from photomechanical plates and retouched with a
graver. It is an exceedingly dangerous counterfeit.”

Chief Connor nodded assent as he examined the note, then looked
inquiringly at his assistant. “Well, Neale?”

“‘Gentleman Charlie,’” was the latter’s only comment, and Chief Connor
smiled.

“Exactly, Neale. Issue special warnings to all banks. ‘Gentleman
Charlie’ has resumed operations.”




CHAPTER XIII

THE RED HERRING


THE front door of the Porter mansion opened with such precipitancy that
Vera Deane, on the point of going upstairs, paused with one foot on the
bottom step. A glimpse of Murray’s usually stolid countenance, as he
stood in the doorway, indicated news out of the ordinary, for his eyes
were open to twice their accustomed size and his mouth was agape.

“It’s you, miss!” he ejaculated in vast relief at sight of her. “The
doctor wants you.”

Vera changed color. Why should Beverly Thorne want her? To be sure
Mrs. Porter had sent for him to attend Craig Porter, but why should he
inquire for her--unless he desired to talk to her in her professional
character? But he was aware that Craig Porter was attended by a day
nurse, while she, Vera, did not go on duty until eight o’clock in the
evening.

Vera had slight time to conjecture, for Murray was brushed aside and
a tall man advanced into the hall to greet her. As he lifted his hat
Vera stared at him in mute amazement, and it was not until her hand was
clasped warmly that she recovered her voice.

“Dr. Noyes!” she gasped. “You have returned, after all!”

“So it seems.” Alan Noyes’ grim smile was brief. “A word with you, Miss
Deane, before I see Mrs. Porter.”

Murray, engaged in lighting one of the gas brackets, paused in his
labors as a sound from outside the house reached him.

“Doctor, you and Miss Deane had better step into the drawing-room,” he
said, hurrying to the front door after a peek out of the window. “The
limousine has just stopped outside, and Miss Millicent will be here in
a minute.”

His words, however, instead of hastening Noyes’ footsteps toward the
drawing-room caused him to loiter in the hall, then sighing heavily he
accompanied Vera into the drawing-room just as Murray opened the front
door.

“Miss Deane”--Noyes stepped close to her side--“what are the latest
developments in the Brainard”--he hesitated--“tragedy?”

“So far as I know there are no new developments, except those published
in the morning newspapers.” Vera watched him narrowly, and noticed
the worn lines in his face and his harassed air. “The police appear
nonplussed.”

“Have they discovered any clues?” Noyes’ anxiety was palpable, and Vera
looked at him with increased earnestness.

“I am not in their confidence, doctor,” she said quietly. “If they have
discovered new clues I am not aware of it.”

Noyes took a quick turn up and down the room, and thereby imperiled
numerous pieces of bric-à-brac as, blindly ignoring the congested
arrangement of Mrs. Porter’s choice heirlooms, he thought over Vera’s
statements.

“Have they decided whether Brainard’s death was suicide or murder?” he
inquired, pausing in front of her.

“I believe they consider that--that--he did not kill himself.”

Noyes listened to her halting sentence with marked impatience.

“In other words, you mean that the police believe Brainard was
murdered?” She nodded assents. “I gathered that was the consensus of
opinion when reading the morning newspapers. And what is your opinion,
Miss Deane?”

The question was unexpected, and Vera drew back. “I am not qualified to
judge,” she commenced confusedly. “From the nature of the wound--”

“You take it to be murder?”

“No, no,” with unexpected vehemence, and Noyes eyed her sharply. “A man
can nick himself with a razor on either side of his throat, and no one
be able to tell whether the wound was self-inflicted or done by another
with intent to kill.”

The twilight had deepened, and Noyes experienced difficulty in reading
Vera’s expression.

“That does not seem to be the opinion of the deputy coroner, and he
performed the autopsy,” Noyes said dryly. “He affirms that the wound
could not have been self-inflicted.”

“But you are a surgeon,” broke in Vera impetuously. “What did you think
when you saw the wound?”

Noyes regarded her with singular intentness. “You forget that I left
this house before the discovery of Brainard’s death.”

“True, you were to sail on the _St. Louis_”--Vera never took her eyes
from him. “The steamer has sailed, but you--are here.”

“A self-evident fact,” impatiently. “I missed the boat.”

“Oh!” The ejaculation was faint, but Noyes started and turned red.

“Enough of myself,” he commenced brusquely. “How is Craig Porter?”

It was Vera’s turn to redden; she had completely forgotten her patient
in her astonishment at Alan Noyes’ unexpected appearance. “Mrs. Hall
has just informed Mrs. Porter that Craig appears to be worse, and she
has sent for Dr. Beverly Thorne.”

“Indeed? I wonder--” He did not complete his sentence, but fell into
moody silence which Vera forbore to break. Mrs. Hall was with Craig
Porter; she was not needed in the sick room for nearly three hours,
and, except for dinner, her time until eight o’clock was her own. The
alteration in Alan Noyes puzzled her; his pleasant reserved manner had
given place to brusque inquisitiveness but indifferently masked. What
had brought about the change? Speculating was idle work, and she was
about to address him when he spoke.

“I have not inquired for Miss Porter; is she well?”

Vera failed to observe in the dim light the effort the question cost
Noyes, but she was quick to note the formality of his query. Four days
before he would have said “Millicent.” A lovers’ quarrel would explain
his peculiar behavior and altered demeanor; but he and Millicent had
been good friends, nothing more. Vera frowned in perplexity, and her
reply was tinged with stiffness.

“Miss Porter appears quite well.”

Noyes peered at her in the gloom in uncertainty. “Appears well,” he
muttered under his breath. “Has she--”

He was interrupted by the pulling back of the portières of the hall
doorway, and Millicent Porter walked in, her light footfall being
deadened by the heavy rugs. An exclamation, quickly stifled, escaped
Noyes, and he pulled his officer’s cape more closely about him, then
turned and faced her.

“Why are you staying here in the dark, Vera?” she inquired. “Oh, I
beg pardon,” perceiving for the first time that Vera was not alone;
then as her eyes grew accustomed to the dim light she recognized Alan
Noyes. A wave of emotion, instantly suppressed, shook her, and, laying
one trembling hand on the nearest chair back, she waited in silence; a
silence spent by Vera in glancing from one to the other, her perplexity
deepening; what had arisen to estrange the surgeon and Millicent?
And if they had quarreled, why had he returned to be a guest in her
mother’s house? Vera’s expression betrayed her doubts, and Noyes, who
had edged imperceptibly nearer, perceived her hesitancy.

“Good afternoon, Miss Porter,” he said, and the effort to repress all
emotion made his voice devoid of feeling.

“Good evening,” responded Millicent with equal coolness. “It is Dr.
Noyes, is it not?”

Noyes flushed hotly. “Yes, I returned, I--”

Mrs. Porter’s entrance broke in on his stammered explanations. She
wasted no words, but advanced with outstretched hand.

“Welcome back,” she exclaimed in cordial greeting. “I could hardly
believe Murray when he said you were here. Have you seen Craig?”

“Not yet, I--” Noyes brightened perceptibly at her cordiality. “I was
just telling your daughter and Miss Deane that I missed my steamer
and--”

“Came back here, _naturally_,” put in Mrs. Porter blandly. “We would
not pardon your going elsewhere, would we, Millicent?” addressing her
daughter who had stepped over to the mantelpiece and was absently
fingering one of the Sèvres vases.

“No, certainly not,” she remarked without turning around. Mrs. Porter’s
eyebrows met in a frown, but whatever rejoinder she would have made was
cut short by an announcement from Murray as he waited in the doorway.

“Dr. Thorne is here to see you, madam.”

“Good gracious! I had forgotten.” Mrs. Porter moved toward the door.
“Wait for me, Dr. Noyes. I will come back at once.” And she walked
majestically into the hall, Murray holding aside the portières for her.
He was about to release the portières when Millicent, without a glance
at Noyes, who had watched her every movement, hurried into the hall.
Apparently unconscious of Vera’s continued presence, Noyes turned
restlessly to the nearest window and looked out with unseeing eyes.
Vera stared at him, in indecision, for a brief second, then left the
room. But in the hall she found her way to the staircase blocked by
Mrs. Porter’s ample figure and paused, not liking to brush past her,
and at that instant Beverly Thorne appeared from the reception-room
where Murray had ushered him on his arrival.

“Good evening.” His bow and greeting included both Mrs. Porter and
Vera, then he addressed the older woman directly. “My man-servant,
Cato, told me that you had telephoned for me, and I came at once.”

“Thank you.” Mrs. Porter was graciousness itself, but the smiling eyes
hid intent watchfulness. “I find that the message was telephoned you
prematurely; I am sorry to have troubled you--” A gesture completed the
sentence.

“You mean”--Thorne advanced nearer--“that you do not require my
professional services for your son?”

“Yes, doctor.” Mrs. Porter’s eyes shifted to the hat stand where
Thorne’s hat and overcoat and medicine bag were lying. “It was good of
you to come so promptly, but since I telephoned you my son’s regular
physician has arrived, and so--”

Thorne took a step toward the hat stand, then paused. “May I ask you to
give a message to Dr. Washburn--”

“Dr. Washburn is not here,” interjected Mrs. Porter hastily. “I refer
to Dr. Alan Noyes, who has just returned.” She had a carrying voice and
her words reached other ears than her companions’, for as she ceased
speaking, Detective Mitchell emerged from the back hall, an eager light
in his eyes.

“You say Dr. Noyes is here,” he exclaimed, ignoring manners in his
interest. “Then I must see him at once.”

“I fail to see why,” retorted Mrs. Porter, whose violent start at sight
of the detective was not lost on Thorne. “Dr. Noyes is here to attend
my son, and his presence is required in the sick room.”

“I must have a word with him. I will not detain him long.” Mitchell’s
insistence was not to be denied. “Where is Dr. Noyes?”

Mrs. Porter stiffened, but her angry retort I was checked by a voice
behind her.

“I am here,” announced Noyes, looking out on the group from between
the drawing-room portières. “Who wants me?”

“I do, Detective Mitchell of the Central Office.” Mitchell scanned the
surgeon’s face with close attention. “We can’t talk here,” glancing
disapprovingly about the large square hall.

“You can use the library.” But the permission did not come graciously
from Mrs. Porter; she never took kindly to having her plans thwarted
even in trifling details. “Make your interview as brief as possible,
Mr. Mitchell, as I desire to have Dr. Noyes see my son.”

“I will come upstairs in a few minutes,” promised Noyes, before the
detective could make reply, and, stepping past Vera, who had been a
silent witness of the scene, the Englishman led the way to the library.
Thorne, who had picked up his hat and overcoat preparatory to leaving
the house, was detained by a gesture from Mitchell.

“Come with us, doctor,” he said, and after a moment’s hesitancy
Thorne went with them, ignoring Mrs. Porter’s indignant glance and
half-extended hand to stop him.

The library lamps were lighted, and the fire replenished by Murray
some minutes before burned brightly on the hearth. Noyes, his manner
suggesting the host rather than a guest in the house, signed to
Mitchell to draw up a chair, then glanced inquiringly at Thorne, and
the detective hastened to introduce them.

“This is Dr. Beverly Thorne who is assisting me in my investigation
of the murder of Mr. Bruce Brainard,” he said, and the two men bowed.
“Now, Dr. Noyes,” as Thorne took a chair near at hand, “let’s be brief.
Why did you leave here Tuesday morning?”

“To catch the steamer _St. Louis_--but I reached New York too late.”

“Humph!” The detective eyed him searchingly. “It is not on record that
you tried to catch the steamer. I had the piers and booking-offices of
the steamship companies watched.”

“Did you?” Noyes’ raised eyebrows expressed polite surprise. “Why?”

“Because I desired certain information,” tartly. “Why did you leave
here without bidding Mrs. Porter good-by, or the nurses?”

“I said good night to Mrs. Porter and her daughter on Monday
night--they both were aware of my plans--as for the nurses, Mrs. Hall
and Miss Deane, they had my written instructions and Dr. Washburn was
to take over the case in my absence.”

Mitchell looked at him steadfastly. “Then you claim that your departure
on Tuesday morning was not on the spur of the moment?”

“I do.”

Mitchell shot an inquiring glance at Thorne, who promptly joined in the
conversation.

“I understand you were expecting a cable from England,” he began.
And Noyes turned instantly and gave him his full attention. “Did you
receive that cable?”

“Yes.”

“At what hour?”

“Let me see.” Noyes thought a minute. “I imagine it was about twenty
minutes of three Tuesday morning when I was called on the long-distance
telephone and the cable message repeated to me.”

“Twenty minutes of three”--Thorne did some rapid calculating, and
when he spoke again his manner was grave. “It was at that hour or
thereabouts that Deputy Coroner McPherson contends Brainard was
murdered. Did you hear no sound from his room?”

“No,” shortly. “I spent most of the night in this library, and this
old house, with its thick brick walls, is sound-proof.”

“Quite true,” acknowledged Thorne, and his manner showed
disappointment. “Too bad, doctor; I had hoped that you might give us
some light on Brainard’s death, as you were up and awake practically
all night on Monday.”

“There was one other person up, also--Miss Deane,” volunteered Noyes,
and Thorne’s piercing eyes bored into him. “Even she, in the next room,
heard no sound--while I was down here.”

“How did you know Miss Deane never detected any sound in Brainard’s
bedroom?” demanded Mitchell swiftly.

“I read it in the newspapers.”

“That brings me to another point.” Mitchell bent forward in his chair
in his eagerness. “You left here early Tuesday morning, ostensibly to
catch the steamer _St. Louis_, which you say you missed--then where
have you been staying since then, and how did you leave this country
place early Tuesday morning without anyone seeing you, and get into
Washington?”

“That is my affair, Mr. Mitchell, and I question your right to quiz me
on the subject.” Noyes’ face hardened, and there was a glint of anger
in his eyes.

“Here’s my authority.” Mitchell displayed his badge. “I’m in charge of
this case, and I consider you a material witness, and as such you are
amenable to the law.”

“You forget I am a British subject.”

“That won’t prevent my getting legal authority through the State
Department, if necessary, to summon you to court when this case goes to
trial,” retorted Mitchell. “Take it from me, you can’t dodge the issue.”

“I am not striving to dodge it.” Noyes spoke with angry emphasis.
“Surely, gentlemen, you are not striving to fasten the crime on me?”

Thorne, watching him intently, wondered at the almost fanatical light
that leaped for an instant into Noyes’ deep sunken eyes, then died out
as Mitchell responded.

“I am seeking information to clear up the mystery surrounding
Brainard’s death,” he said roughly. “If it involves you, so much the
worse--for you.”

“Tut! No threats are necessary,” broke in Thorne. “You go too far,
Mitchell,” meeting the detective’s stony glare with composure. Then
he turned courteously to Noyes. “You and Miss Deane are the only ones
known to have been up and about this house on Monday night, between
midnight and early morning; and we are seeking to learn from every
source the identity of the third person who was also up and about--”

“A third person?” Noyes looked at him, startled. “What third person do
you refer to?”

“The murderer,” dryly. “The quest sifts down to you and Miss
Deane, doctor; Miss Deane has cleared herself of suspicion”--with
emphasis--“while you--”

“Have not.” Noyes eyed his inquisitors with sharp intentness. “Kindly
state your reasons for intimating that I killed a man whom I only met
for the first time on Monday evening--barely ten hours before he was
found murdered in his bed.”

“It’s a bit unusual to give reasons,” said Mitchell dubiously, but a
nod from Thorne reassured him, and he continued, more quickly: “You
admit you were up all night Monday, doctor; you disappeared early
Tuesday morning without leaving word how or where you were going; you
won’t tell us where you spent the past few days; and you haven’t told
us what brings you back to this house today.”

“Surely, the fact of my voluntary return clears me of all suspicion,”
argued Noyes heatedly.

“Not necessarily,” retorted Thorne. “Your actions lead us to suppose
one of two motives inspired you to disappear so promptly Tuesday
morning before the discovery of Brainard’s murder. Don’t interrupt,”
as Noyes moved restlessly. “Either you were guilty or you were seeking
to protect the guilty party.” Noyes sat rigidly in his chair, his
expression blank as Thorne paused and scanned him narrowly. “Now,
doctor, which is it?”

Thorne’s question did not receive an immediate response, and the
detective assumed a self-congratulatory air as he waited for Noyes to
speak, but Thorne, never taking his eyes from the Englishman, waited
with concealed anxiety for his next words. They were slow in coming;
apparently Noyes was feeling his way.

“Sifted down to bed-rock, you have nothing against me except an
unavoidable absence of body at the time Brainard’s murder was
discovered. My so-called ‘disappearance’ was but a coincidence,”
said Noyes finally, and he looked at Thorne. “I understand you are a
surgeon.”

“I am.”

“Then you must be aware that cutting a man’s throat is a difficult
operation.” Noyes spoke slowly, impressively. “According to the
newspaper accounts which I read, Brainard’s throat was cut from right
to left, and that he was found lying on the right side of the bed;
therefore, if such was the case, the wound must have been inflicted by
a right-handed man.”

“Do you mean to claim as your defense that you are left-handed?”
demanded Mitchell.

“No, not originally left-handed.” Noyes threw back the officer’s cape
which he still wore, and disclosed an empty coat sleeve pinned across
his chest. “I left my right arm on a battlefield of France,” he added.

There was a long silence broken by a scream from the hall. Springing
to his feet Mitchell darted through the open door and down the hall,
Noyes and Thorne at his heels. All three paused at sight of Millicent
Porter on the lower step of the staircase.

“My papers!” she gasped. “Someone has stolen my papers!”

Noyes’ left arm supported her as she staggered and almost fell. Thorne,
standing somewhat in the background, whistled low at sight of the
Englishman’s expression as he bent above Millicent.

“So--the red herring across the trail,” he muttered below his breath,
and started violently at finding Vera Deane at his elbow.




CHAPTER XIV

PRO AND CON


THE dining-room at Thornedale Lodge looked particularly cozy in the
soft lamplight, and old black Cato, surveying the room, could not
repress a smile of subdued gratification. He considered himself “one ob
de fam’ly,” and it was doubtful if even Beverly Thorne had as great an
affection for his ancestral home as did the old man who in his youth
had been a slave on the Thorne plantation. Year in and year out he had
worked on the place, being advanced from field hand to house servant in
the early days following the Civil War, and when the fortunes of the
Thornes were at the lowest ebb he had worked without wages so as to
help “Old Miss” educate her boy, Beverly, and keep the homestead from
going under the hammer. Illiterate, kindly, faithful, Cato epitomized
the spirit of the old-style darky, to whose watchful care Southern men
had not feared to leave their wives and children when they went to
fight with Robert Lee.

Cato had been true to every trust reposed in him. In his humble hands
Mrs. Thorne had left the farming of the few acres still remaining to
the once large estate, and but for his “truck garden” she would have
gone without many necessities. And when Mrs. Thorne grew older and
more feeble, Cato, when crops were bad, did not hesitate to do odd
“chores” for neighboring farmers, receiving in return poultry or fresh
vegetables which would be served to Mrs. Thorne as only Cato knew
how to cook them. But even these delicacies could not prolong Mrs.
Thorne’s feeble hold on life, and Cato, bottling up his own sorrow,
turned to his “young marster” with the same blind devotion which had
characterized his affection for Colonel and Mrs. Thorne.

It was found on reading Mrs. Thorne’s will that a small legacy left
by her husband, who had pre-deceased her by twenty years, had been
carefully hoarded against the day when Beverly Thorne would be old
enough to go to a medical college, and true to his promise to his
mother he eventually entered Johns Hopkins University, and was
graduated with honors; but the spirit of adventure, inherited from
some doughty ancestor, had sent him far afield. In his absence Cato
had acted as caretaker of the “lodge,” and when Beverly once again
entered the house he had exclaimed with delight at finding every piece
of furniture, every heirloom, valued by his mother, in its accustomed
place, and showing by its excellent condition the care lavished upon it
by Cato.

Cato’s pleasure in the cozy appearance of the dining-room was shared
by Detective Mitchell, who even forgot his impatience to see Beverly
Thorne as he examined the handsome animal heads and skins hung on the
walls.

“Fine trophies,” he commented. “I had no idea Dr. Thorne was such a
sportsman.”

“He didn’t kill all de critters,” acknowledged Cato. “Some has been in
de fam’ly a long time, far’s I can remember, an’ dat’s consid’able far.”

“So you’ve been in the family a long time?” Mitchell looked at him
shrewdly. “Remember the Civil War?”

“Jes’ like it ware yesserday,” promptly. “An’ seein’ yo’ all a-peepin’
an’ a-peerin’ at de Porter house makes me think ob when de ‘rebs’ an’
de ‘Yanks’ uster camp out hyarabouts, an’ I’d wake in de mawnin’ an’
find de Yanks hyar an’ de nex’ day dey’d vamoose, an’ de rebs would
come an’ take what was lef’ ob de fence rails ter make camp-fires.”

“But they couldn’t run off with that stone wall toward the river,”
remarked Mitchell. “Pity the wall didn’t extend around the whole place
and you wouldn’t have had so much trouble. But perhaps the wall wasn’t
built in those days?”

“Oh, but ’twas. Ole Judge Porter, him dat was de gran’son ob de fust
owner ob Dewdrop Inn, he had dat wall set dar ter cut off de ribber
view, ’caise he hated de Thornes.”

“But why?”

“’Caise his gran’mother jilted Colonel Thorne jes’ de day befo’ de
weddin’, to marry his gran’daddy.”

“Do you mean to say seriously that that dead and gone romance is at the
bottom of the present-day feud between the Thornes and the Porters?”

“I ’spect it are.” Cato crossed the room and adjusted a rug to his
taste. “Ain’t nebber heard nuffin’ else.”

“And on the strength of that Mrs. Porter refuses to receive Dr. Thorne
as a guest in her house,” Mitchell laughed. “It doesn’t seem possible
in these enlightened days that people will nurse a grievance nearly
a hundred years old. And apparently Mrs. Porter intends passing the
feud to the next generation, and keeping her daughter and Dr. Thorne
at loggerheads.” Mitchell jingled the keys in his pocket. “It has all
the atmosphere of a Montague and Capulet affair--except for the lack of
romance.”

Old Cato scratched his bald head and the little tufts of wool still
remaining, in perplexity.

“Dar’s a Montagu livin’ ’bout five miles from hyar, but I ain’t never
heard tell ob no Capulets in de neighborhood. Was yo’ a-referrin’ to de
Richard Montagu fam’ly?”

“No, no--only to an old play,” explained Mitchell, and seeing Cato’s
mystified air, added, “It would have been like the play had Dr. Thorne
and Miss Millicent Porter fallen in love and the families opposed the
match; that is what I meant.”

“Yessir.” Cato brightened. “Dat was what Ole Miss uster wonder ’bout,
when little Miss Milly uster slip ober hyar and eat hot gingerbread.”

Mitchell’s scrutiny was not noticed by Cato as he replaced articles on
the mantelpiece. “Am I mistaken--is there a romance between Dr. Thorne
and Miss Porter?” he asked.

“I doan know what yo’ mean by romance,” grumbled Cato. “Marse Beverly
am mos’ twelve years older than Miss Milly; dey knowed each odder when
chillen, an’ Marse Beverly made her whistles an’ things, an’ fo’ fear
de old Judge Porter would fo’bid Miss Milly comin’ hyar to see Ole Miss
we nebber tole no one.”

Cato had an attentive listener as he ambled on who forbore to hurry
him. “Has the friendship between Miss Porter and Dr. Thorne kept up?”
he inquired finally.

Cato’s face altered. “No, an’ I didn’t ’spect such treatment of Marse
Beverly from Miss Milly,” he grumbled. “Now Marse Beverly’s back she
ain’t never troubled ter recognize him on de road--an’ she set a store
by his mother--I cain’t un’erstand these hyar women folk!”

“You are not alone in that,” answered Mitchell. “The police are
puzzled by the behavior of Mrs. Porter and her daughter.”

“So I heard tell.” Cato’s tone was short; too late he repented of his
garrulous confidences. In the pleasure of hearing his own voice he had
forgotten that Mitchell was a detective. “I ’spects Marse Beverly won’t
be back ’til nearly midnight; had yo’ better wait?”

“Surely, there’s no hurry.” And in proof of his words Mitchell selected
a comfortable chair. “Where did you say your master had gone?”

“Didn’t I tell yo’ he’d gone to Washington?” Cato’s manner waxed
impatient, and Mitchell hastened to quiet him.

“So you did,” he agreed. “But it seems to me that he ought to be back
by now.”

“Yo’ cain’t tell how dese hyar cyars is gwine ter run; sometimes Marse
Beverly gets hyar right smart on time, an’ ag’in he don’t.” Cato
lugged out of his pocket an old-fashioned silver timepiece, rivaling a
turnip in size, and his most prized possession. It had been the gift
of Mrs. Thorne from among her heirlooms, and bore the inscription, “To
our most trusted friend, Cato.” The negro regarded the face of the
watch solemnly as he counted off the time. “’Most ten o’clock,” he
pronounced. “An’ dar’s Marse Beverly now,” as the resounding bang of
the front door echoed through the house. “I’ll jes’ tell him yo’ am
hyar.”

But Cato’s rheumatic limbs did not permit of rapid motion, and Thorne
was halfway up the stairs before the negro’s hail reached him.

“Mister Mitchell am hyar,” announced Cato.

“Here?” Thorne paused. “Where?”

“In de dinin’-room, sah,” stepping aside as Thorne descended the
staircase and crossed the living-room. “He’s been a-waitin’ some time.”

Thorne quickened his footsteps. “Hello, Mitchell, I’m very glad you had
the patience to wait for me,” he exclaimed on reaching the dining-room.
“Cato, bring some Scotch and vichy. Make yourself comfortable,
Mitchell.”

“I’ve been doing that,” laughed Mitchell. “Cato made me feel quite at
home.”

“Good.” Thorne moved over to the dining-table as Cato, returning,
placed a tray with siphon and bottle of Scotch whisky before him. “Say
when--”

“Enough.” Mitchell took the tall glass extended to him and filled it
with vichy. “What are you Virginians going to do when your state goes
‘bone dry’?”

“Endure it with other evils,” dryly. “I wish the legislators would
remember, before passing such stringent laws, that we are not all
‘self-starters,’ and dry dinners can be very dull.”

“You speak feelingly. Was that your experience at dinner tonight?”
asked Mitchell, observing that Thorne wore a dress suit.

“Yes.” Thorne pushed two chairs near the fireplace and produced a cigar
box and ash trays. “What are the latest developments across the way?”

“Nothing later than the scene with Noyes this afternoon,” replied
Mitchell. “Where’s that Englishman been hiding since the discovery of
Brainard’s murder?”

Thorne did not speak until after lighting his cigar. “Are you quite
sure that Noyes was hiding?”

“He must have been, for we sent out a general call to police
headquarters throughout the country to look for him, and no trace of
him has been reported. Also, doctor, no one has reported seeing him
leave the Porter house Tuesday morning. How did he get to Washington?
Where did he take the train for New York?”

Thorne stared thoughtfully at his highball and twirled the glass about
several times before speaking.

“I don’t know that this has any bearing on the case,” he said. “But one
of my patients told me today that an old country place in Maryland just
across the river has been bought by an Englishman named Galbraith--my
patient has seen Dr. Noyes and Galbraith motoring together
and--Galbraith owns a motor power boat.”

“Oh!” Mitchell produced his memorandum book and made an entry in it.
“I believe you’ve hit the trail, doctor,” he exclaimed a moment later.
“I didn’t see Dr. Noyes again as, after reviving Miss Porter from her
feinting spell, he went up to Craig Porter’s room, and Murray told me
an hour ago that the doctor was still in the sick room and could not be
called away.”

“I wish”--Thorne paused to knock the ash from his cigar--“I wish Dr.
Noyes had delayed his return just one hour.”

“Why?”

“Because”--Thorne picked his words with care--“because I was called in
by Mrs. Porter to attend her son, and I would have liked to have the
case.”

Mitchell looked at him amusedly. “What, do you desire to pour coals of
fire on Mrs. Porter’s head by curing her son, or”--his eyes twinkling
as he scanned Thorne, whose air of distinction was enhanced by his
well-cut evening clothes--“do you wish to have your hereditary enemy at
your mercy?”

“Perhaps.” Thorne’s firm mouth relaxed into a warm, bright smile, which
cloaked his abrupt change of subject. “Do you think that Noyes is
implicated in Brainard’s murder?”

“I do and I don’t.” Mitchell settled back in his chair and crossed
his legs. “First and foremost is his disappearance on Tuesday morning
before the murder was discovered--”

“Before the murder was generally known,” put in Thorne, and Mitchell
considered the suggestion gravely.

“Perhaps so,” he admitted, “but I don’t quite catch your drift,”
looking inquisitively at Thorne who, however, remained silent, and
Mitchell continued: “Noyes’ disappearance after the murder, his refusal
to tell me where he spent the past few days, and why he has now
returned to the Porter house all point to a desire for secrecy; and
secrecy would indicate that he has some knowledge of the crime--if he
is not the criminal himself.”

“The latter supposition I think you can dismiss,” remarked Thorne. “It
was physically impossible for a one-armed man to cut Brainard’s throat.”

Mitchell did not answer at once, then pulled his chair closer to
Thorne. “Were you aware until this afternoon in the Porter library that
Noyes had lost his right arm?”

“No. I had never seen Noyes before.”

“But others who testified at the inquest had seen Noyes--why did they
not mention that he had only one arm? Surely a rare enough condition
to have made sufficient impression on his friends and the servants for
them to have commented upon it at the inquest,” argued Mitchell. “In
subsequent conversations, Mrs. Porter, the nurses, Miss Porter, never
alluded to his having lost an arm. Why was that?”

“I’m sure I don’t know.” Thorne knitted his brows in thought. “It’s
highly probable that they never imagined Noyes could be suspected of
murdering Brainard, or they would have mentioned it to prove that he
could not have killed him.”

“I don’t agree with your reasoning,” snapped Mitchell. “The loss of
his arm was bound to have come up when the coroner was questioning the
witnesses about the razor; any one of the servants even might casually
have mentioned his infirmity. No, doctor, they didn’t allude to it
because they were accustomed to his using _a false arm and hand_.”

“Upon my word!” Thorne sat back and contemplated the detective in
surprise. “That’s an ingenious theory.”

“I’m sure I’m right,” went on Mitchell, showing more than his usual
animation as he warmed to the subject. “I was about to question Murray
when Miss Dorothy Deane appeared and ordered me off the place--a
message from Mrs. Porter, she said, and as Murray looked as if he was
ready to back up his employer’s orders, I retreated--until tomorrow.
Now, doctor, you are aware of the ingenious steel and wooden limbs
invented to take the place of arms and legs; they are marvels of
mechanical skill, and one-armed surgeons using a false arm and hand
have been known to perform the most delicate operations.” Thorne nodded
agreement. “Well, why couldn’t Noyes have, with the aid of a false
hand, cut Brainard’s throat?”

“It is within possibility,” admitted Thorne. “But the motive for the
crime?”

The detective chuckled grimly. “In moments of stress or excitement
men give themselves away. Did you observe Noyes’ expression when Miss
Porter fainted? You did; then there’s the answer to your question.”

“You mean--” Thorne tossed away his cigar stub. “You mean Noyes is in
love with Millicent Porter?”

“I do,” emphatically. “There’s your motive, doctor--jealousy. Now,
consider all the facts,” catching sight of Thorne’s dubious expression.
“Miss Porter’s engagement to Brainard was to be announced on Tuesday,
but it leaked out at the dinner Monday night. Noyes may have had no
idea that she was engaged to another man, and the news awakened a
desire to be revenged on Brainard. It is possible that Miss Porter
encouraged Noyes’ attentions, and he lived in a fool’s paradise. It’s
said, ‘Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.’ Well, my profession
has taught me that men evince the same strong dislike to such
treatment--and such motives frequently lead to murder.”

“You are building up a specious case against Noyes,” remarked Thorne.
“But whether your conclusions rest on a firm foundation remains to be
seen. Frankly, I was prepossessed in Noyes’ favor this afternoon; he is
a man evidently of deep feeling, and, judging by appearances, living
under great strain.” Thorne spoke more slowly. “Noyes is not the type
of man to commit cold-blooded murder.”

“Tut, doctor, murder is not confined to a type!” retorted Mitchell.
“If it were we would have an easy time detecting criminals. And they
don’t go around labeled ‘criminals’ in real life any more than they do
in fiction. It’s generally the least suspected person who is guilty in
everyday life, and the clues are to be found in the victim’s past.”

“Exactly!” exclaimed Thorne. “Why not inquire into Brainard’s past?”

“Jones has that in charge and I’m expecting a report daily,” answered
Mitchell. “I’ve learned everything there is to know concerning
Brainard in Washington. He stood well in his profession, had some
private means, and was counted a good fellow at the club, and was a
great ‘dinner man.’”

“The latter means nothing,” commented Thorne cynically. “A suit
of respectable evening clothes often covers a family skeleton in
Washington society.”

“In this instance I haven’t heard the bones rattle,” laughed Mitchell.
“But it may be--” he paused abruptly. “That Deane girl bothers me.”

Thorne’s hand, outstretched to grasp his glass tumbler, remained poised
in air. “She need not trouble you,” he said, taking up the glass.
“I’ve thought over our former conversation about her, Mitchell, very
carefully, and have come to the conclusion that I was wrong.” His gray
eyes held his companion’s gaze as his clear, resonant voice continued:
“I believe that Miss Deane was not in Craig Porter’s bedroom when
Brainard was murdered in the room next to his.”

“Where was she then?”

“Perhaps in her own bedroom or downstairs.”

“Then why doesn’t she say so?”

“Because by admitting that she left her patient she would lay herself
open to dismissal for neglecting her professional duty.”

Mitchell smiled skeptically. “Better be dismissed as an incompetent
nurse than be charged with murder. But you jump to conclusions, doctor.
I did not allude to Miss Vera Deane a moment ago, but to her sister,
Dorothy.”

“Dorothy!”

“Yes,” continued Mitchell. “I went to the _Tribune_ office this
afternoon, and she had the effrontery to tell me that the article Miss
Porter threw into the unused well on the side hill was nothing but a
‘cut’ of her photograph.”

“Have you investigated the matter?”

“Sure. That old farmer, Montagu, told me of seeing Miss Porter drop
something in the well yesterday; but I haven’t had time to examine the
well today.”

Thorne rose and, walking over to the table in the window, pulled open
its drawer. “Here’s the cut,” he announced, taking out a square piece
of metal caked with mud. “Montagu also told me, and I searched the well
this afternoon with his aid.”

Mitchell took the cut and gingerly turned it over. “So Dorothy Deane
told the truth,” he muttered, “and got ‘fired’ for it.” And as Thorne
glanced up in surprise he briefly recounted the scene in the newspaper
office. At its conclusion he rose. “I’m glad to have had this talk with
you, doctor.”

“Don’t go,” protested Thorne. “I can easily put you up for the night.”

“Thanks, but I must relieve Pope who is keeping his eye on the Porter
house. Let me know if you see anyone up in the attic at the Porters’
tonight sending wireless messages.”

“All right, I will.” Thorne accompanied the detective into the
living-room and assisted him into his overcoat. “Drop in tomorrow,
Mitchell; I’m always glad to see you,” he said cordially.

“I’ll come, doctor; good night,” and Mitchell strode through the
doorway and up the brick walk.

Thorne watched him out of sight, then closed the hall door and returned
to the dining-room. He stopped to pull down the window shades, first
taking an exhaustive look at the Porter mansion, whose dark windows
showed indistinctly in the pale moonlight. Thorne next turned his
attention to the neglected cut of Millicent Porter. Barely glancing at
it, he flung it back in the drawer and walked over to the table and
poured out another highball.

“To Vera!” he said aloud, holding up the glass, then lowered it without
tasting its contents, while his eyes contracted with sudden pain.
“Bah!” he ejaculated, and, replacing the glass on the tray, he stepped
to the door and looked into the dark pantry.

“Cato,” he called, removing his coat, “Cato!”




CHAPTER XV

EDGED TOOLS


THE moonlight penetrated but feebly through the one small opening which
did duty for a window of the lean-to, and its interior was a mass of
shadows. Suddenly that point of light was obliterated as a dark cloth
was pulled across the opening. There was a prolonged wait before the
same fingers switched on an electric lamp supplied with current from
a powerful dry battery, but the light was so arranged that it fell
directly upon a table on which stood a photographer’s outfit. A man,
his face in shadow from a huge green eye-shade which he wore low on
his brow, removed his hand from the electric switch. Taking up a piece
of bond paper he felt its texture, and holding it up to the light he
examined with minute attention the red and blue silk fiber running
through the paper.

Laying down the paper he took out his wallet and drew out some money,
and holding the spurious bill and the genuine bank note against the
light he compared them closely, then a smile of triumph crossed his
tightly compressed lips. It was next to impossible to distinguish
between the two notes. Greatly elated, he straightened his weary back
and looked about his workshop.

The cabin, for such it was, though to the casual observer it looked
like only a lean-to of logs against the hillside, had but the one
room which was fairly large, but owing to the numerous benches and
tables and other articles it appeared smaller than it really was. At
one side stood a printing-press, a metal rolling-machine, planchette
cutting-machine, pump, two oil stoves, a plating outfit, and a
double Turner torch, while a series of shelves held paints, oils,
acids, brushes, and chemicals. Dumped in one corner were a lathe, a
melting-pot, brazier, crucible and ladles, and on a nearby bench were
scales, copper and zinc plates, dies, and molds.

The counterfeiter replaced the genuine money in his wallet and returned
the latter to his pocket, then he moved over to a small safe and placed
a handful of spurious bank notes inside it. He stood for a moment
staring at the closed door of the safe, but he was in too excited a
frame of mind to remain long idle, and walking over to a small cabinet
he pulled out first one drawer and then another, arranging engraver’s
tools and other delicate instruments with deft fingers. After that
task was completed he turned his attention to the stone chimney and
fireplace at the back of the cabin and banked the smoldering embers
with ashes. Finally convinced that there was no danger of fire he drew
out from the background large screens and arranged them in front of the
homogeneous contents of the room. The screens were cleverly painted
to resemble the bare walls of a log cabin, and once in position they
caused the optical illusion, should any passer-by look through the
window, of a deserted and empty cabin.

The counterfeiter, first concealing his green eye-shade behind one of
the screens, switched off the electric light, and moving over to the
window drew back the black cloth and concealed its presence by tucking
it in a crevice in the log wall. A second later he was outside the
cabin, and the faint click of the spring lock as he closed the door
assured him that the latch had caught. He was inspecting the lock
which chemicals had made old and dilapidated in appearance when a
shadow obscured the moonlight shining on the door. The counterfeiter’s
hand closed over the butt of a revolver inside his overcoat pocket, but
before he caught sight of the newcomer a subdued but familiar voice
reassured him, and his chilled blood coursed through his veins.

“I’se late, but I’se hyar, sah.”

“So I see, Cato, but come out of the moonlight.” And he pulled the old
servant into the shelter of the woods. “What news?”

“Ain’t none,” tersely; the climb up the hillside had been both steep
and hard, and the old negro was short of breath. The stillness remained
unbroken for several minutes except for the hoot of a screech owl,
at which the negro jumped nervously, then seeing that his companion
had started down the hillside he made what speed he could after him.
They were skirting the hedge which marked the southern boundary of
Thornedale when a hand was laid on Cato’s shoulder.

“Go home, Cato,” directed the counterfeiter. “Don’t wait for me
tonight, I’ll be along presently.”

“Yessir,” promised Cato, peering cautiously at him. “Yo’ am sure--”
An impatient nod checked Cato, and he thankfully withdrew, making his
way to Thornedale with infinite caution. The counterfeiter watched him
until he was lost from sight in the grove of trees about the house,
then turned his attention to the Porter mansion. But his wary progress
in that direction was checked by the sound of rapidly approaching
footsteps, and he had but time to sink down behind the friendly hedge
when a figure loomed ahead silhouetted against the skyline in the
moonlight.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Eleven, twelve,” chimed the hall clock, and the sound carried through
the open door of Craig Porter’s bedroom to Dr. Alan Noyes sitting by
the paralytic’s bedside. Noyes looked up and rose as Vera Deane came
over to the bed.

“Mr. Porter responds quickly to medicine,” he said, keeping his voice
low-pitched. “And he has at last fallen asleep. I think we may safely
believe that his relapse of this afternoon was but temporary.”

“Thank God for that--his poor mother!” Vera spoke with deep feeling. “I
am afraid she will be our next patient, doctor.”

Noyes looked grave. “Mrs. Porter has had a trying year; anxiety for
her son, Monday’s tragedy--” His gesture was eloquent. “Try and humor
her as much as you can, Miss Deane; her frayed nerves won’t stand
opposition.” He took an undecided step across the room. “Mr. Porter is
so much improved that I will go and lie down. Call me at once should
Mr. Porter awaken and any alarming symptoms appear.”

“Very well, doctor.” Vera’s eyes strayed from his haggard face to his
empty coat sleeve, and with difficulty she controlled all evidence of
curiosity. Before he reached the door she again spoke to him: “Are you
occupying your same room?” she asked.

Noyes looked his impatience. “Yes, I am,” he said, and his manner was
far from gracious. “Good night, Miss Deane.”

“Good night, sir,” and Vera closed the hall door.

Everything had been arranged in the sick room for the night, and Vera
selected a chair farthest from the night light and near her patient,
and prepared for a long vigil. But while she continued to gaze steadily
at Craig Porter, every sense alive to catch his need of careful
nursing, she could not center her thoughts on her patient.

Slowly she reviewed the happenings of the day--her meeting with Beverly
Thorne; his possession of the black-edged card. Was it mere chance,
Fate or Fury which had entwined their paths? Could she place dependence
upon Thorne? Her heart beat more swiftly and a vivid blush dyed her
cheeks as recollection rose of the message his eyes conveyed as they
stood together at Diamond Rock barely eight hours before. Pshaw! she
was not impressionable, like Dorothy and Millicent--and experience had
taught her something of man’s duplicity.

Vera blinked violently, and leaned over to smooth out an infinitesimal
wrinkle from the white sheet. Craig Porter had not awakened, and
she forced thoughts of Beverly Thorne out of her mind and instead
endeavored to recall her scene with Mrs. Porter in the library. As she
remembered the expression in the older woman’s eyes when she had asked,
“Who in this household would have a motive for killing Bruce Brainard?”
Vera turned cold. Why had she not obliged Mrs. Porter to give a direct
answer to her own question--at least she would have had her suspicions
either confirmed or denied; any alternative would have been preferable
to the intolerable suspense she was enduring.

She passed a hand before her eyes, and her thoughts took a new trend.
What had brought Alan Noyes back to the Porters’ when he-- The opening
of the hall door abruptly terminated her troubled reflections, and she
rose as Mrs. Porter entered the room.

Without speaking Mrs. Porter tiptoed over to the bed and gazed long and
earnestly at her son.

“Is he really asleep?” she whispered.

“Yes, Mrs. Porter. Won’t you take my chair?” placing it for her.

Mrs. Porter seated herself, drawing Vera down to sit on the arm in
order that she might speak confidentially and not raise her voice.

“I can do nothing with Millicent,” she said wearily. “Arguments,
commands, are of no avail; she will not go to bed, will not even slip
on her wrapper and lie down on the lounge. She declares that she cannot
sleep, that she must have ‘air, air.’” Mrs. Porter pushed her hair off
her forehead. “She even threatens to go for a walk.”

“At this hour?”

“Yes. I thought of sending for your sister to quiet her, but concluded
to come for you. Your nursing experience can decide if she needs a
sedative.”

“Shall I call Dr. Noyes to attend her?”

“No.” Mrs. Porter’s mouth closed obstinately. “Except that her manner
is a trifle wild and her cheeks unduly flushed, Millicent seems
rational. You have great influence with her, Vera; go and quiet her.”

“But I cannot leave your son.”

“Yes, you can; I will stay here until you return.” Mrs. Porter spoke
authoritatively and Vera hesitated, Noyes’ caution of the moment before
recurring to her; he had told her that Mrs. Porter should be humored,
and there was nothing for her to do but obey his instructions. She
looked again at Craig Porter, whose closed eyes and regular breathing
indicated that his sleep was uninterrupted. If Millicent did require
medical attendance she could summon Dr. Noyes and Mrs. Hall, and return
to her regular duties. A thought occurred to her, and she turned back
to Mrs. Porter.

“Would you like me to call Mrs. Hall?”

“Mercy, no!” Mrs. Porter frowned; she objected to suggestions, no
matter how well meant they were. “Go at once, Vera, I do not like to
leave Millicent alone for any length of time. She is sitting in the
boudoir.”

With a last look at her patient, Vera left the room and sought the
boudoir; it was empty. She went at once to Millicent’s bedroom and,
her gentle tap getting no response, she opened the door and went in.
Millicent was not there, and, somewhat perplexed, Vera looked into the
communicating dressing-room and from there passed into her sister’s
bedroom. Dorothy was lying asleep on the bed, her gas-light turned low,
but as Vera bent over her she saw traces of recent tears on her pale
cheeks and forbore to wake her.

Returning to the hall she stood debating as to whether to report to
Mrs. Porter or continue her search for Millicent on the first floor.
She decided to go back to Mrs. Porter, but as she paused in front of
the door of Craig Porter’s bedroom a faint noise caused her to look
hastily down the hall just as Millicent emerged from the attic stairs
and disappeared down the back staircase. The acetylene lights at either
end of the long hall were burning dimly, as Mrs. Porter deemed it
unsafe to keep the house in darkness, and Vera saw that Millicent was
enveloped in some sort of a cloak.

Considerably perturbed, Vera hesitated, but only for a moment; then she
sped after Millicent. Mrs. Porter was on guard in the sick room, and
she had sent her to look after her daughter. If Millicent, in a moment
of delirium perhaps, attempted to walk abroad at that hour of the night
she must be reasoned with and stopped.

Vera’s disturbed ideas took form as she dashed downstairs, the sound of
her approach deadened by her rubber-soled shoes. She was halfway down
the circular staircase when she saw Millicent fumbling with the lock,
by aid of the moonlight streaming through the fanlight over the side
door. The clang of the night chain when Millicent unhooked it drowned
Vera’s low-voiced call, and, snatching up a small bundle which she had
placed on a console, Millicent darted out into the night. Her foot
turned just as she was about to descend the few steps leading to the
graveled path, and only her outflung hand saved her from a nasty fall.
Recovering herself and never glancing behind her, she hastened up the
path, being careful, however, to tread only on the turf.

Vera, unmindful of the chill wind and her coatless condition, paused
only long enough to close the door, then hurried after Millicent. She
had taken but a few steps beyond the house when her foot struck against
something which whizzed ahead of her, and she caught the glint of
moonlight on metal. Catching up with the small object, she stooped over
and picked it up. It was a razor.

Vera’s heart beat with suffocating rapidity as she tore ahead. What
fresh tragedy was impending? To her dismay she saw Millicent was
gaining ground. What use to call--no one was near--and she needed
every ounce of breath to overtake the flying figure. Millicent kept a
fairly straight course, then, darting among a clump of laurel bushes,
disappeared from view, but only for a moment, as Vera, circling the
bushes, caught sight of her cutting across fields toward Thornedale,
but instead of continuing her approach to the low, rambling hunting
lodge, she doubled on her tracks and half slid down a steep embankment.

Vera, hampered by her unfamiliarity with the ground, was some minutes
later in reaching the top of the embankment, and she halted abruptly on
seeing Millicent, no sign of her recent haste discernible, seated at
the bottom of the embankment, apparently resting at her ease. Shifting
clouds temporarily obscured the moon, and Vera waited expectantly
before attempting the descent, dropping to her knees behind a cluster
of shrubs as she decided to call and ask Millicent to wait for her. But
her intentions received a check as a figure turned the corner of the
winding highway, and a voice addressed Millicent.

“Who is here?” The next instant an electric pocket torch played
across her face, then flickered out as Hugh Wyndham exclaimed in deep
astonishment, “Millicent!”

His cousin threw out her hand as if to ward off the censure she felt
coming.

“The house was stifling, Hugh,” she explained hurriedly. “I simply had
to come out,” rising. “I’ll walk back with you. My head feels better
already.”

Wyndham gazed at her in undisguised concern. “I wish I had known--” he
began, and broke off. “Come, Millicent.” And slipping his arm inside
hers, he led her with gentle determination in the direction of her
house. Vera, greatly relieved at having Wyndham take charge of his
cousin, was about to rise from her cramped position and follow them,
when the razor, which she still clutched, slipped from her grasp and
slid down the embankment. Instinctively she reached for it, lost her
balance and went plunging down to the roadway. In an instant she was on
her feet, the razor once again in hand, and she started forward but,
confused by her tumble, she did not realize that she was headed in the
wrong direction until she had taken several steps.

[Illustration: “Hush!” he whispered. “No noise. Look----”]

As she paused she became aware that someone was approaching swiftly
down the road, and suddenly awakening to the fact that Millicent and
Wyndham were out of sight in the opposite direction, and that it must
be long after midnight, she made a few hesitating steps toward a hedge
and stopped irresolutely; there was no reason why she should run away.
She held up the razor and the sight of the burnished steel in the
light from the moon, which had come from behind the obscuring clouds,
reassured her. She was not without protection, but a sudden doubt
assailed her; how was she to account for the possession of the razor?
Millicent might have dropped it in her flight from the house--but why
had Millicent carried a razor--it was a toilet article not usually
possessed by women. Could it be that Millicent was striving to get rid
of the razor surreptitiously? The police were still searching for the
set of razors from which had been taken the razor used to kill Bruce
Brainard--

Vera’s arm was raised to fling the razor far from her when a hand was
clapped over her mouth and she was pulled down in the shadow of the
hedge bordering the road. Her startled eyes looked straight at Beverly
Thorne.

“Hush!” he whispered. “No noise. Look!”

And following his pointing finger Vera saw a man run across the
opposite field, vault the fence and hurry down the road. He was
entirely out of sight before Thorne removed his hand from Vera’s
shoulder, and, rising, he helped her up.

“Come,” he said, and in silence accompanied her to the Porter mansion.

Vera, her ideas too chaotic for utterance, detained him at the side
door. “Who was the man we saw run up the road?” she asked. “His figure
looked familiar, but I did not get a clear view of his face.”

“It was Detective Mitchell,” responded Thorne softly, lifting his cap.
“Good night.”

Not until she was safely inside the Porter mansion did Vera remember
the razor--she gazed blankly at her empty hands. Had she dropped the
razor in her excitement or--had Beverly Thorne taken it from her?




CHAPTER XVI

HARE AND HOUNDS


WYNDHAM, taking no precautions to walk lightly, tramped down the hall
oblivious of the bright sunshine which streamed through the windows,
whistling dismally below his breath. As he came abreast of his cousin’s
bedroom the door, which stood partly ajar, was opened fully and Mrs.
Hall stepped into the corridor, a finger to her lip. Wyndham halted
abruptly.

“Is anything the matter?” he questioned, alarmed by her manner.

“Miss Porter has been given a sedative,” she said, closing the bedroom
door softly. “The slightest noise--your whistling--”

“Oh, I beg pardon,” in deep contrition. “I was not aware--is she
seriously ill?”

“A trifle feverish.” Mrs. Hall glanced at him doubtfully, looked away,
then bowed and laid her hand on the knob of the bedroom door, but
Wyndham, quick to catch her expression, checked her by an imperative
gesture.

“You wish to ask me something?”

All hesitancy vanished as Mrs. Hall met his steadfast regard and came
unconsciously under the influence of his friendly smile. “Your cousin,”
she began, “your cousin in her delirium begged me to find out if she
had hidden them safely.”

Wyndham stared at her. “Hidden what?”

“She never said, but repeated over and over that she wished me to go
and see if she had hidden them safely.” Mrs. Hall moved nearer, and
lowered her voice. “I trust Miss Porter will be normal when she wakens.
I had to use physical strength to prevent her from going out to see ‘if
she had hidden them safely.’”

Wyndham failed to catch her furtive glance as he stood considering her
words. He roused himself with an effort. “I have no idea to what my
cousin alludes,” he said, and his glance sharpened. “How is your other
patient this morning?”

“Mr. Porter is about the same.” Mrs. Hall grew grave. “Dr. Noyes is
with him until Miss Deane awakens from her nap. She has volunteered to
do double duty.”

“I see; let me know if I can be of assistance in taking care of Craig,”
said Wyndham, and, bowing, he went downstairs.

Mrs. Hall did not at once re-enter Millicent’s bedroom, but when she
did her expression was not pleasant.

Wyndham was not noted for patience at any time, and when he strode into
the dining-room his manner showed his frame of mind. He had a vanishing
view of the butler, Selby, carrying a tray upstairs, but Murray’s
non-appearance after he had repeatedly rung the bell added to his
irritation. Jerking back his chair he pushed open the swing door.

“Murray!” he roared, and his voice carried through the pantry and into
the kitchen beyond.

“Coming, sir, coming,” and the footman followed his words with such
precipitancy that he almost collided with Wyndham. “Beg pardon, sir,
for keeping you waiting, but cook felt fainty-like, and I was just
helpin’ the maids give her some pneumonia.”

“Too bad!” Wyndham, concealing a smile, resumed his seat. “I hope she
feels better.”

“Yes, sir, thank you. Your breakfast is being kept warm for you; shall
I bring it in?”

A nod sufficed in answer as Wyndham spied the morning newspaper, and
paying no further attention to the footman he turned sheet after
sheet with feverish haste. With little to feed upon, excitement
about the Brainard murder had abated, and the column devoted to it
had been relegated to the third page. The reporter assigned to the
case had evidently had difficulty in finding a new angle in handling
the mystery, and had devoted his energies to concocting an ingenious
résumé. But one paragraph near the bottom of the column riveted
Wyndham’s attention.

  Detective Mitchell, when interviewed last night, confirmed the
  report that events in the career of Bruce Brainard before he came to
  Washington were being investigated, and a thorough search made into
  the dead man’s private affairs. Brainard was a self-made man, and
  while a student at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Troy, N.
  Y., he spent his summer vacations working as private secretary to
  the Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington.
  Brainard afterward made a name for himself in his profession, and
  was one of the recognized high-salaried consulting engineers of this
  country.

  All efforts to establish the ownership of the razor used to kill
  Brainard have been unproductive of result. The detectives claim the
  razor is one of a set, but where and by whom the other razors of the
  set have been hidden in the Porter homestead is a mystery.

“Deviled kidney, sir,” prompted Murray, presenting a piping hot dish,
and Wyndham, with a thoughtful air, laid down the newspaper and
commenced his breakfast.

“Where is Mrs. Porter?” he inquired presently.

“Breakfasting upstairs, sir.” Murray, who had brought in a fresh supply
of coffee, hastened to fill Wyndham’s empty cup. “Selby is serving her
and Miss Dorothy in the boudoir. Have another muffin, sir?”

As Wyndham attacked his third muffin with unabated appetite, Dorothy
Deane strolled into the dining-room, and he rose to place a chair for
her, his face brightening at her entrance.

“It was very unkind of you not to wait and have breakfast with me,”
he said reproachfully, as she declined Murray’s offer of a cup of hot
coffee.

“Mrs. Porter asked me to stay with her. I only ran down thinking that
Vera might be getting her breakfast.”

Wyndham looked as hurt as he felt. “I am sorry--” he said stiffly.

Impulsively Dorothy extended her hand and he clasped it eagerly, and
Murray, his solemn countenance relieved by a sympathetic smile,
discreetly vanished.

“Don’t,” she pleaded brokenly, “don’t find fault with me. I--I can’t
stand it from you.”

Wyndham saw that her eyes were brimming with tears. The next instant
she was in his arms, and as he caught the passionate light in her eyes
his heart swelled with thanksgiving, the irresistible force of love
had conquered the constraint growing between them. But his moment of
rejoicing was short lived as, regaining some semblance of composure,
she quietly unclasped his hands and rose.

“We are both mad, Hugh,” she said, with a pitiful attempt at a smile.
“Under existing circumstances we cannot be married.”

“Why not?” hotly, with honest worship in his eyes. “I see no barrier,
except of your imagining.”

She recoiled. “Hush, Hugh! I cannot discuss it--it’s too near, too
dreadful--” She covered her eyes and so missed the look he shot at her.

Without a word he turned and paced agitatedly up and down the room,
coming at last to a full stop beside her. “Very well, if you wish it
I will not allude to past events.” His voice was so changed that she
looked at him in quick alarm. “But you must understand, Dorothy, that
your love is to me more than all the world; that I have never ceased to
love you.”

She moved impulsively toward him, then checked herself, her eyes
downcast; she dared not look at him or her resolution would have given
way.

“Finish your breakfast,” she said in a voice which quivered in spite
of her endeavor to keep it calm; she was very near to tears. “Are you
going to Washington this morning?”

“No.” He accepted her effort to make the conversation impersonal
with marked displeasure, then, thinking better of his ungracious
monosyllable, he added hastily, “Is there anything I can do for you in
town?”

“There is nothing, thanks,” she said drearily, and looked past him
through one of the windows in time to see Dr. Alan Noyes walking
swiftly along the path which circled the house. Dorothy watched Noyes
out of sight, then turned back to Wyndham, her eyes dark with wonder.

“Hugh,” she almost whispered her words, and he bent eagerly nearer,
“why has Alan Noyes discontinued wearing his false arm?”

He did not reply at once, and she remarked his silence, but before she
could repeat her question he addressed her.

“I cannot imagine,” he admitted. “It is a move likely to turn suspicion
toward him, and it will not lessen the conviction that he is perhaps
responsible for Brainard’s murder.”

“Why?”

“Because without the arm he could not have committed the crime;
therefore, if he is guilty the first thing he would do would be to get
rid of the arm--if innocent he would have continued to use it.”

“But his motive?” Dorothy frowned in perplexity. “The only person he
might protect by such a subterfuge never murdered Bruce Brainard.”

Wyndham studied her intently as he drew a degree closer. “Are you so
very positive you know who really is guilty?” he questioned, with
peculiar intonation; the look she flashed at him was her only answer,
for Mrs. Porter’s entrance put an effectual end to the tête-à-tête.

“Good morning, Hugh,” she said, returning her nephew’s kiss with
warmth. Pad and pencil in hand, she was on her way to make her weekly
inventory of household supplies, a habit clung to as year succeeded
year, and never delegated to the most trusted servant. She seldom
permitted circumstances to alter the daily routine. “Dorothy, will you
be here all day?”

“Yes, Mrs. Porter; this is my day off from the _Tribune_.”

With a relieved air Mrs. Porter walked toward the pantry. “Will you
stay upstairs with Millicent, Dorothy, until I return?” she asked.
“Mrs. Hall is still with her, but--” Mrs. Porter let the swing door
close and beckoned her nephew and Dorothy to come nearer. “I am
dissatisfied with Mrs. Hall,” she went on in an undertone. “In the last
week her manner to me is totally altered--”

“Perhaps she resents your fondness for Vera,” suggested Wyndham, as
Dorothy made no remark. “Professional jealousy may account for any
peculiarity of manner.”

“That is possible,” acknowledged Mrs. Porter. “She is an excellent
nurse, and until lately has been eminently satisfactory. I shall be
greatly obliged, Dorothy, if you will go at once to Millicent and stay
with her until I return.” And, not waiting for an answer, she entered
the pantry. Wyndham accompanied Dorothy into the hall and strove by an
appealing gesture to detain her for a few more words.

“I really can’t stop,” she protested, as he imprisoned her hand. “Mrs.
Porter is frightened about Millicent--and yet, Mrs. Hall told me it was
only a feverish cold, and that while she was running a temperature,
she was not seriously ill. What induced Millicent to go for a walk in
the grounds after midnight?” Getting no response, she added nervously,
“What was her object?”

“Her object?” Wyndham’s thoughts turned reluctantly from Dorothy to
what she was saying. “Oh, Millicent told me the house was stuffy and
that she had a headache and needed air.”

“Is that all?” Dorothy’s relief was manifest. “She came into my room on
her return and awoke me. When I questioned her as to where she had been
her manner was so mysterious that I concluded she was hiding something.”

“Hiding something?” repeated Wyndham mechanically, as Mrs. Hall’s
words recurred to him; Millicent in delirium stated that she had
“hidden something”--could that something be the extra razors which the
enterprising reporter in the morning newspaper hinted were secreted
somewhere about the Porter homestead? The thought was startling.

In his preoccupation Wyndham hardly noticed that Dorothy had freed
her hand and run up the staircase. He stared in front of him in deep
thought for several minutes, then, his decision taken, he picked up his
cane and hat and went outdoors.

Wyndham was totally unconscious of the beauty of the morning as
he strode along, retracing the path by which he and Millicent had
returned after their meeting at the foot of the embankment early that
morning. Upon reaching the highway he kept to the public road, and as
he approached the embankment he saw a man, at some distance beyond
the point for which he was aiming, emerge from a break in the hedge
separating Thornedale from the public road, and walk rapidly toward the
embankment. Drawing closer to the newcomer Wyndham recognized Beverly
Thorne and instinctively quickened his pace, and the two men arrived
simultaneously at the embankment.

With a curt bob of his head and a mumbled “Good morning,” Wyndham made
as if to continue his walk down the road, but turning his head quickly
he saw Thorne had stopped and was carelessly swinging his riding crop
up and down and thereby creating havoc in the creeping myrtle which
covered the space between the road and the embankment.

Wyndham wheeled about and was by Thorne’s side in an instant. Suppose
the surgeon inadvertently chanced upon Millicent’s hiding-place--for
that his theory was right Wyndham had come to believe in his walk to
the embankment. How Millicent had ever acquired possession of the
razors could be investigated later; at the moment it was his business
to prevent others, particularly Thorne, who must be familiar with that
section of his land, from stumbling upon any evidence which might
incriminate--

“Have a cigarette, Thorne,” he said, hastily producing his silver case.
“Great day, isn’t it?”

Thorne eyed him in surprise, then, concealing a faint hesitancy,
accepted a cigarette and also a proffered match. “Much obliged,” he
said politely. “How is your cousin, Mr. Porter, this morning?”

“Better, much better.” Wyndham was watching his companion narrowly; he
had only exchanged a few words with him on the few occasions they had
met. “My aunt appreciated your coming so promptly in response to her
message, and we were both sorry to put you to the trouble--”

“It was no trouble,” replied Thorne brusquely; sensitive as he was to
his neighbors’ dislike of him, he was quick to resent what he construed
to be a touch of patronage in Wyndham’s manner.

An awkward pause followed as each man waited for the other to walk on.
Wyndham was a poor hand at manufacturing small talk; he did not care to
discuss with anyone whom Mrs. Porter disliked intensely the happenings
of the week, yet Bruce Brainard’s murder and its attendant mystery were
uppermost in his mind, and he could think of nothing else to speak
about. Thorne, watching him closely, embarrassed him still further by
remaining obstinately silent. They could not stand by the roadside
contemplating each other for the remainder of the morning, but Wyndham
was determined not to leave until Thorne did.

“Suppose we sit down,” suggested Thorne finally. “We might as well be
comfortable while enjoying good cigarettes.” And he threw himself on
the ground and lolled back against the embankment.

Wyndham reluctantly followed suit. He was in a fever of impatience to
test out his theory; had Millicent really secreted the razors in the
old place in which as a child she had hidden her toys? He could not
start his investigations until it pleased Thorne to depart.

Three minutes, five minutes passed, and Wyndham regarded the wireless
apparatus on the Porter house in glum silence, determined not to speak
first, but a sudden rustling of the myrtle leaves by his side attracted
his attention and he discovered Thorne running his riding crop in and
out among the myrtle. Wyndham’s slight grip on self-control vanished
utterly, and, disdaining subterfuge, he slipped his walking stick under
the leaves and instantly the two pieces of wood knocked together and
clung, almost like rapiers feeling the strength of opponents before
making a deadly thrust. Suddenly the frail cane snapped and Wyndham
withdrew the bit he still held.

“Sorry,” said Thorne coolly. “Let me look for the other end of your
stick.”

“Don’t bother.” Wyndham’s utterance was husky with anger. “The loss of
the stick is no matter, but--” He stopped short as Detective Mitchell
came up to them; both he and Thorne had been too intent upon watching
each other to notice his approach.

Mitchell’s sense of humor was highly entertained by the tableau before
him; for Thorne and Wyndham both looked heated and displeased in spite
of their efforts to maintain an attitude of calm indifference. The
detective could understand their quarreling, but why they sat by the
roadside, resting lazily back against an embankment at some distance
from each other, and each presenting the appearance of having used
physical exertion, was beyond him.

“What are you doing here?” he demanded, looking from one to the other.

“Smoking,” responded Wyndham; he did not relish the detective’s
presence. “Have one?” extending his depleted case, and Mitchell
accepted a cigarette. He took his time lighting it, while covertly
watching the two men, and his interest deepened as he saw Thorne’s
hands moving apparently aimlessly through the myrtle leaves. A look at
Wyndham showed him doing the same thing.

“What are you searching for, Mr. Wyndham?” he asked.

“I dropped my last match,” was the reply, and Wyndham leaned to one
side and felt about the ground.

“Here’s my box--catch!” Thorne, taking it from his pocket, tossed it
to Wyndham. The match box fell squarely before Wyndham, and he picked
it up with a word of thanks and relit his cigarette, then returned the
box, and gave his full attention to Mitchell.

“What news this morning, Mitchell?” he inquired.

Mitchell took his own time in answering as he puffed smoke rings with a
contented air.

“Commonwealth Attorney Wood has issued a warrant for Dr. Alan Noyes,
and the sheriff has just gone to serve it.”

“What!” Wyndham was on his feet instantly, his face white and startled.
“It is a monstrous miscarriage of justice. Noyes is no more guilty of
Brainard’s death than you are, Mitchell.”

“He will have ample opportunity to prove his innocence,” replied
Mitchell. “The preliminary hearing will be held before Judge Ball this
morning.”

“On what do you base such an accusation?” demanded Wyndham, for the
moment forgetting to keep up his espionage of Thorne.

“I cannot disclose details,” Mitchell’s chin looked aggressive. “Dr.
Noyes may give bond in answer to the warrant, and waive examination
until the next term of court.”

“Give bond!” Wyndham started. “By Jove! I had better return home;
Noyes will need me to go on his bond. See you later, Mitchell,” and he
stepped back into the road, then hesitated, his glance traveling to
Thorne who sat gazing straight ahead of him. He was leaving Thorne in
possession of the embankment.

Mitchell was about to call to Wyndham to wait for him when he suddenly
recollected a message intrusted to his care.

“Your old servant, Cato, is looking for you, Dr. Thorne; and he
asked me to tell you if we met that Philadelphia wants you on the
long-distance telephone.”

Thorne was on his feet instantly. “Why didn’t you tell me that at
once?” he began heatedly, then forgetting all else he hurried back to
Thornedale. A second later Mitchell was alone, for, not pausing to
exchange further remarks, Wyndham was beating a quick retreat to the
Porter mansion. Mitchell smiled grimly.

“There’s not much love lost between Thorne and Wyndham,” he muttered.
“Therefore it’s surprising that they sat here in positions which would
seem to indicate amicable conversation. And what were they striving
to find in this neighborhood without the other’s knowledge?” Mitchell
scratched his head in his perplexity. “And why did they leave me
here?” He considered the question, then brightened. “It’s because I’m
a stranger in this locality and they imagine I won’t know what to look
for.”

Mitchell made certain that Thorne had really returned to his home, then
facing about he saw Wyndham moving swiftly across fields toward the
Porter mansion. Losing no further time he knelt down and felt about
under the myrtle leaves near where Thorne and Wyndham had sat. But
his search only produced dirty hands, and mumbling an uncomplimentary
adjective about the two men, Mitchell moved a few steps down the road
to where the roadside, skirting the embankment, widened and hollowed
out. The creeping myrtle grew there in profusion, and Mitchell stooped
down every other second, as he moved slowly along, to feel about the
ground. At the last attempt his hand encountered cold iron, and he
dropped down on his knees and, drawing aside the leaves and vines,
saw an old cannon lying on its side in the hollow. It was small and
of obsolete pattern. It had sunk partly into the ground and was not
visible unless searched for, as the myrtle leaves made an effective
screen. The detective studied the cannon for several minutes, then
an idea occurred to him and he plunged his hand down its muzzle. His
fingers closed on a bundle, and dragging it forth he unfolded a large
silk handkerchief--a glittering array of razors confronted him.

Mitchell squatted down and examined his prize--it was a razor set of
finest steel. He paused to count each razor.

“Only five here,” he said aloud. “Each razor bears the day of the
week,” looking at the tiny lettering on the back of the blade.
“‘Friday’ is missing and”--turning them over--“‘Monday.’”

Laying down the set of razors, Mitchell drew from his pocket the razor
found on the bed near Brainard’s dead body. It bore the inscription
“Monday,” and by its make and shape was the missing razor from the set.
Mitchell looked at it as if hypnotized.

“Which one, Thorne or Wyndham, secreted these razors in the cannon?”
he said. “They were both searching for something on this spot. Am I
running with the hare as well as with the hounds?”




CHAPTER XVII

VERA RECEIVES A LETTER


AFTER leaving Detective Mitchell, Wyndham’s walk increased into a run
as soon as he turned a curve in the road, but before reaching Dewdrop
Inn he slackened his pace and it was with bowed head and slow step
that he entered the house. Entirely ignoring Murray’s efforts to help
him off with his overcoat, he brushed by the footman and entered the
drawing-room. Mrs. Porter’s voice, raised in angry expostulation,
drowned the sound of his approach, and he stood almost at the sheriff’s
elbow before that official became aware of his presence. Sheriff
Nichols, who had met him several times at the county court house,
greeted him cordially.

“How are you, Mr. Wyndham?” he said, relieved by having someone besides
an irate woman to argue with. “I’m trying to explain to Mrs. Porter
that Dr. Noyes must come along with me, and she won’t listen to reason,
nohow.”

“Reason? What reason is there in arresting an innocent man?” fumed Mrs.
Porter. “Besides,” a gleam of hope lighting her eyes, “Dr. Noyes is not
a citizen of the United States, but an Englishman.”

“Well, ma’am, that doesn’t give him the right to come over here and
murder law-abiding citizens,” retorted the sheriff bluntly. “No, he’s
amenable to the law.”

“I have not claimed otherwise,” exclaimed Noyes; he had been standing
somewhat in the background. Moving forward he laid a persuasive hand on
Mrs. Porter’s arm. “Do not worry; I can prove my innocence when brought
to trial.”

“But to subject you to such treatment!” wailed Mrs. Porter, her
composure showing signs of giving way under the stress of her feelings.
“And Craig--what of him? Is my son to die because you insist on taking
his physician to jail?” addressing the harassed sheriff.

“Law, ma’am, there’re plenty good American doctors.” But the sheriff’s
well-meant suggestion brought no consolation.

“They don’t understand Craig’s case. Secondly,” frigidly, “I don’t
place any faith in country doctors.”

“Call in Bev. Thorne, he only came back recently from city practice,
and”--brightening--“he’s just across lots; ’most as handy as having him
in the house.”

Mrs. Porter’s face was a study. “I shall never permit Dr. Thorne to
treat my son,” she announced, in her excitement utterly forgetting that
she had sent for Thorne the night before. “He is personally distasteful
to me, and I have no confidence in his ability. I tell you, sheriff,
by taking away Dr. Noyes you will be directly responsible for my son’s
death.”

The sheriff moved uneasily. “Duty’s duty, ma’am,” he mumbled. “And,”
suddenly suspicious, “I heard as how Mr. Craig was a great deal better.”

“He was”--Mrs. Porter wrung her hands, and the anguish in her eyes
stirred a responsive chord in the sheriff’s breast; he had lost a
son--“but Craig has had a relapse. Oh, my God! Why did Bruce Brainard
ever come to this house!”

“Hush, aunt!” Wyndham shook her elbow slightly, and as she met his
warning gaze she pulled herself together. “I will go bail for Dr.
Noyes, sheriff; and he will stay with us until the next term of court.”

Sheriff Nichols looked dubious. “Well, come along with us to the
court,” he directed. “I reckon perhaps the judge will accept your bond;
but it’s sure to be a pretty stiff one.”

“I will sign the bond also,” put in Mrs. Porter swiftly. “I beg of you,
sheriff, to hurry through the legal formalities and permit Dr. Noyes to
return.”

“Sure I will, if the judge permits.” The sheriff backed toward the
door. “Come along, doctor, and get your grip, we might as well tote
it with us; save a return trip in case the judge decides against the
bond.” He turned to bow to Mrs. Porter and walked into the hall.

Noyes led the way upstairs and paused outside his door. “Will you lend
me your suitcase, Wyndham?” he asked. “I didn’t bring mine back with me
yesterday.”

“Certainly.” And Wyndham hurried down the hall as Noyes and Sheriff
Nichols entered the former’s bedroom. It was a large bright room,
and as the surgeon moved backward and forward between his bureau and
his bed carrying underclothes piece by piece the sheriff took in his
surroundings in a comprehensive glance, then walked over to the bureau
and pushed Noyes gently to one side.

“Sit over there, son,” he explained. “A man with one arm ain’t got
no business trying to sort clothes.” And without losing further
time, he smoothed out the garments and arranged them in a neat pile.
In replacing several suits of pajamas, the sheriff disarranged the
large sheet of white paper which covered the bottom of the drawer,
and disclosed a photograph lying concealed under it. Nichols did
not require a second glance to recognize Millicent Porter; he had
seen her too often riding about the countryside, or motoring, to be
mistaken. A flip of his finger, and the photograph lay face down, but
no writing was on the reverse of the cardboard. The sheriff smoothed
the white paper back into place, then rose and faced Noyes, who sat
gazing drearily out of the window. His utter indifference upon the
announcement of his arrest and his subsequent silence puzzled the
sheriff; he was more accustomed to noisy protestations of innocence, or
quarreling; a willing prisoner was a new sensation.

Wyndham’s return with a suitcase put a stop to his cogitations, and,
hardly waiting for the bag to be opened, Sheriff Nichols gathered
together such toilet articles and clothing as he thought Noyes might
need, and slammed them inside.

“There, that’s done. All ready, doctor?” And he pocketed the key of the
suitcase.

Noyes roused himself. “Quite ready,” he said automatically, but once in
the hall his manner altered; he darted a look toward Millicent’s closed
door, then resolutely turned to the sheriff. “I must see Mr. Craig
Porter, and leave directions with his nurse.”

“All right, I’ll come, too.” And the sheriff, utterly blind to the
sudden furious glare Noyes shot at him, followed the latter into the
paralytic’s bedroom, and shut the door in Wyndham’s face.

At their entrance Vera Deane looked up from a chart on which she was
writing and rose, wonderment showing at sight of the sheriff’s stocky
figure; then suppressing her surprise she waited for Noyes to speak.

“Miss Deane, this is the sheriff,” he announced curtly, making no
attempt to lower his tone; and Sheriff Nichols frowned reprovingly as
he gazed at Craig Porter; a loud voice in the room with that motionless
figure seemed discordant. Nichols sighed involuntarily as he studied
the changes in Craig; the latter’s almost fatal injury had made a total
wreck of splendid manhood.

“And to think I uster take him hunting when he was a shaver,” he said,
below his breath. “And I’m hale and hearty and he’s bedridden; and
he’s twenty years my junior. It don’t seem right, Craig; but you were
always wishing to climb the tallest tree and ride the worst hoss, and
see what ambition’s done for you.” He met Vera’s eye and shook his head
mournfully as he said aloud, “It don’t seem fair to talk to Craig when
he can’t answer back.”

Noyes laid down the chart and faced the sheriff. “Kindly say nothing to
the patient, Sheriff Nichols. The slightest noise may do injury.”

“Then why are you talking so loud?” grumbled Nichols, reddening under
the reproof. “There ain’t no use hollering my name all around. Ready? I
can’t wait much longer.”

“In just a minute,” and Noyes went over to the bedside. The sheriff,
stepping back to make room for him, transferred his regard to Vera.
He had been aware of her sudden start on hearing who he was, but he
learned nothing from his scrutiny, for Vera’s usually mobile face was
expressionless as she waited for the surgeon’s instructions.

“Keep up the same treatment, Miss Deane,” directed Noyes. “I may be
back in an hour, or not for several days. Come, sheriff,” and they
filed from the room, Nichols’ glance lighting for an instant on the
large open transom over Craig Porter’s bed, but his last look was for
Vera who stood with head half averted, watching her patient.

The shutting of the door roused Vera from her contemplation and she
went busily about her duties, and when at last she sat down the room
was in apple-pie order. There was little she could do for Craig, except
rearrange pillows and adjust sheets, and while Craig could not by sign
or word make known his wants, she had the knack of making her patients
comfortable. But Vera was not left long to her own reflections, for a
tap at the door was followed by Murray’s entrance.

“Here is the bouillon, Miss Deane,” he said, placing the tray on a
stand. “And I brought an additional pint of milk. Shall I put it in
the refrigerator?”

“Yes, thanks.” And Vera hastened to place a screen so that the wind
would not blow on Craig as the footman opened the lower section of the
window and stepped out on the little gallery where stood the small
ice-box in which were kept supplies for the sick room.

Murray was some seconds in arranging the bottles to his satisfaction,
and Vera relished the cool wind as it fanned her hot cheeks. She
longed to be out-of-doors, but with Millicent ill she felt that it
was but right to relieve Mrs. Hall so that the day nurse could attend
the latest case. She, personally, did not require a great amount of
sleep, and the events of the night before had effectually deprived her
of peaceful slumber during the two hours she had lain down earlier in
the morning. She felt that she could not rest until the mystery of the
razor was explained, and yet how could she get an explanation from
Millicent as to how the razor came into her possession, when she was
too ill to be interviewed?

She had the alternative of asking Beverly Thorne if he had taken
the razor from her as they knelt in the shelter of the hedge waiting
for Detective Mitchell to depart. But at the idea Vera’s heart beat
with uncomfortable haste. Among her chaotic experiences following her
pursuit of Millicent one incident was indelibly impressed upon her
memory--Thorne’s impassioned whisper, “Vera, my love, my love!” as they
crouched by the hedge, had not only reached her ears but found response
in her heart.

“Have you heard the news, miss?” asked Murray, after carefully closing
the window, and Vera, on the point of replacing the screen in its
corner, paused and eyed him sharply.

“What news?”

“Dr. Noyes has been took.”

“Took?”

“Arrested, miss; the perlice has him, at least, the sheriff.” Murray
scratched his head. “They both puts him in jail, leastways that’s what
Mr. Hugh said just now before they went off in the motor.”

The footman’s comments, however, fell on deaf ears. Alan Noyes
arrested? Vera clung to the screen, her knees trembling under her.

“Why did the sheriff arrest him?” she demanded, in barely more than a
whisper.

“He thinks the doctor killed Mr. Brainard.” Murray reached forward to
catch her as she swayed toward him. “Did I tell you too sudden, miss?
Will you have a drink?”

Vera breathed deeply. “No, no,” she protested. “I--Dr. Noyes said
that he might be back, but I did not understand.” She stopped to gain
control over her shaking voice. “Who will attend Mr. Craig now?”

“I don’t know, miss.” Murray, like Vera, kept his voice lowered, and,
standing on the other side of the screen, neither was aware of a
movement in the other part of the room. “It don’t seem right, miss,
when the doctor returned to attend Mr. Craig, that he should be taken
away just when Mr. Craig needs him.”

“Hush!” Vera held up a warning finger; her quick ears had caught the
faint sound which accompanies the cautious closing of a door. Gliding
from behind the screen she crossed the room and, peeping into the hall,
was just in time to see the door of Millicent’s bedroom close. She
stared thoughtfully at the mahogany door. It was not the sound made
by Millicent’s door which had disturbed her; someone had opened Craig
Porter’s door and been in his bedroom while she and the footman stood
talking behind the screen. Why had the person not announced his or her
presence?

Vera turned back into the sick room and found Murray regarding Craig
Porter sorrowfully. He was about to speak when he caught her gesture
enjoining silence, and without a word tiptoed from the room.

Several minutes elapsed before Vera moved over to the lunch tray and
drank the bouillon almost at a gulp. As she set down the cup her eyes
fell on a letter addressed to her lying on the tray. The envelope
bore the words “Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia”
in the left-hand corner, and Vera almost snatched it up. Before she
had more than torn off the envelope a rap sounded on the door, and
still clutching the unread letter she went to answer it and discovered
Dorothy standing in the hall.

“I can’t come in.” Dorothy drew back and her low, strained voice seemed
a counterpart of the haggard lines in her white face. “Do you know,
Vera, that they have arrested Alan Noyes for the murder of Bruce?”

“I have just heard it.” Vera glanced cautiously up and down the hall;
apparently they had it to themselves. She pulled the bedroom door
almost shut behind her. “Where is Hugh Wyndham?”

“Gone with Alan Noyes and the sheriff to the court house.” Dorothy
laid a steadying hand against the wall; she was trembling from head to
foot. “Mrs. Porter said Hugh would arrange for Alan’s release on bail.
Vera,” lifting pleading, anguished eyes to her sister, “are you going
to speak?”

A heavy tread on the stairs reached them, and without word or sign Vera
retreated into the bedroom, leaving her sister’s question unanswered.
With the door once safely closed she stopped and regarded Craig Porter,
then going over to the desk she took up the chart and, glancing at her
watch, registered the time and made the entry:

“Patient renews plucking at bedclothes.”

Putting down the chart she took up the letter from the telephone
company, and smoothing out the sheet read the typewritten lines. It was
from the branch manager of the company:

  In response to your request for information regarding the telephone
  call received by Central from the Porter mansion at 5.55 A.M. on
  Tuesday of this week, would say that Central reports that Dr. Beverly
  Thorne’s residence was called for, the speaker being a woman.

                                                  Very truly yours--

“The speaker being a woman--” Vera dropped the letter as if it burned
her fingers. Only one woman was in the library besides herself at 5.55
A.M. Tuesday morning--and that woman was Millicent Porter.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE COUNTERFEIT BANK NOTE


WYNDHAM turned his roadster into the river road and, seeing no vehicle
approaching along the straight stretch ahead of him, pressed the
accelerator and his car raced homeward. He had found Alan Noyes, his
only companion, morose to a degree of rudeness, and had forborne to
address him after leaving the county court house. The hearing before
Judge Ball had been a tedious affair, and the arranging of bail
hampered by red tape, and it was long after the luncheon hour when
Noyes was finally permitted to return to Dewdrop Inn with Wyndham.

They had traversed a third of the distance homeward along the river
road when Noyes touched Wyndham and signed to him to stop. Somewhat
surprised, Wyndham drew the car to one side and slowed down as Noyes
bent forward and fumbled with the catch of the door.

“I’ll walk home from here,” he said, springing out of the car. He
reddened as he turned back to hold out his hand to Wyndham. “You’ve
been awfully good, old chap; I shan’t forget it, but just now I must be
by myself”--he hesitated--“a walk will do me good; see you later.”

Wyndham wrung his hand. “You’ve been through a lot; just walk off
steam, but don’t get lost in the woods.” He started the car forward,
but before rounding the next curve he looked back and was surprised
to see Noyes still standing where he had left him, looking from the
bluff down the valley. The ground toward the river dipped abruptly at
that point and Wyndham, stopping his car, rose in his seat and gazed
in the direction Noyes was facing. His only reward was an excellent
view of the river and the peaceful countryside, and he was about to
drop back in his seat and proceed homeward when he saw Noyes turn,
cross the road, and disappear up the hillside. He had been gone but a
minute when Wyndham, looking again toward the river, was surprised to
see a figure standing near the river bank. The man was too far away for
Wyndham to see who he was. The next instant he, too, had disappeared,
and Wyndham, after a moment’s indecision, resumed his place behind the
steering wheel and started for home; he was not Noyes’ keeper, and if
the detectives wished to trail Noyes while he was out on bail, it was
the Englishman’s responsibility and not his.

Reaching a crossroad Wyndham hesitated, then turning his car into the
highway which skirted Thornedale, he continued along it until opposite
the embankment where he had encountered Millicent Porter the night
before and Beverly Thorne that morning. He stopped the car and, going
over to the roadside, walked along it. The crushed and bedraggled
condition of the creeping myrtle vines a little further on attracted
his attention, and bending down he thrust his hand along until he
touched the muzzle of the old cannon. Bending still farther downward he
ran his hand inside the cannon and withdrew it a second later--empty.

“Could I have been wrong?” he muttered. “Millicent used to hide her
toys and candy there--what more likely than that she thought of the old
cannon if she wished to hide--” He broke off to stare moodily at the
ground. Someone besides himself had examined the cannon since he had
last been there; otherwise he would have noticed the torn vines that
morning. And that man could have been none other than Beverly Thorne;
he also knew of the cannon--had he, too, gone away empty-handed?

Wyndham was in no pleasant humor when he stopped at the garage and,
turning over his car to the chauffeur, he went at once to the house.
Instead of finding his aunt in the library as he had hoped, a stranger
rose at his entrance and bowed politely.

“Is this Mr. Wyndham?”

“Yes.” Wyndham’s manner was not overly cordial; it was not customary
to admit strangers to the library; they were usually shown into the
reception-room. “Have you called to see my aunt, Mrs. Porter?”

“No, sir, I came to see you.” The stranger took out his card case. “I
gave my card to the butler and he asked me to wait in here. I am Sam
Anthony, of the United States Secret Service,” displaying his badge as
he presented his card to Wyndham.

Wyndham barely glanced at the engraved pasteboard; his manner had
thawed perceptibly. “Sit down, Mr. Anthony,” he said, dragging forward
a chair. “I’m sorry to have kept you waiting. What can I do for you?”

“If you will answer a few questions.” Anthony resumed his seat. “Were
you in Brentano’s bookstore yesterday afternoon?”

“I was.”

“You ordered some visiting-cards for Miss Vera Deane?”

“I did.” Wyndham’s surprise at the question was apparent.

“And paid for the cards with a ten-dollar Treasury bill?”

“Yes,” responded Wyndham, and his manner had grown alert. “What then?”

“The bill was an exceedingly dangerous counterfeit.”

“What!” Wyndham sat bolt upright. “Are you sure?”

“Positive.” Anthony took out his bill-folder and selected a gold bank
note. “It’s a wonder,” he added, feeling it tenderly. “Never would have
aroused suspicion at the bank but that Chief Connor warned them only
today to be on the lookout for such a note.”

“Let me see it.” And Wyndham carried the bank bill to the light,
turning his back squarely upon the Secret Service agent as he faced the
window. When he looked up from examining the bill he started slightly
at finding Anthony standing at his elbow.

“I would never have suspected the bill,” he said, handing it back. “It
looks absolutely genuine.”

Anthony nodded. “It’s the work of a genius,” he admitted. “Who gave you
the bill, Mr. Wyndham?”

“Let me see.” Wyndham half closed his eyes in thought, and under
lowered lids observed the Secret Service agent. Anthony cloaked
his ability under a sleepy manner and sleek appearance, and with
him patience was more than a virtue; it was a profession. Dogged
perseverance had won hard-earned promotion for him. He waited in
silence for Wyndham to continue his remarks. “Why do you ask where I
got the note?” the latter demanded, and his tone was crisp.

“Because we must trace it; and it will help materially if you can tell
me where you procured the bill.”

“In that case”--Wyndham returned to his chair, but remained standing,
one hand on the back of it--“the bank note was given me by Miss
Dorothy Deane.”

“The trained nurse?”

“No, her sister.” Wyndham looked closely at Anthony. “You know the
Misses Deane?”

“Never had the pleasure of meeting them.” Anthony sank down in his
seat. “Are they both here?”

“Yes.”

“Then can I see Miss Dorothy Deane?”

“I am afraid not, as she is with my cousin, Miss Porter, who is ill in
bed.” Wyndham pushed his chair aside. “I will go and ask Miss Deane
what she knows about the Treasury bill.”

“Good.”

“I’ll be back in a second.” Wyndham hastened to the door and, not
waiting for a response, hurried upstairs and went at once to his aunt’s
boudoir. To his delight he found Dorothy sitting there alone.

“Hugh!” Dorothy sprang to her feet. “You have news?” studying his face.
“What is it, dear?”

“Nothing alarming,” taking her hand in a firm, reassuring clasp. “You
recall giving me a ten-dollar bank bill to pay for the visiting-cards
I ordered at Brentano’s for Vera--”

“Yes, perfectly,” she said. “What of it?”

“Where did you get the money?”

“From Vera. Why?” Her surprise growing at the continued questioning.

Mrs. Porter’s doorknob rattled as a hand grasped it on the other side
of the closed door, and Wyndham retreated into the hall.

“Tell you later,” he called, closing the door, but before doing so he
caught the sound of Mrs. Porter’s voice raised in querulous questioning.

Wyndham went immediately to Craig Porter’s bedroom, and Vera answered
his soft rap on the door. He signed to her to step into the hall, and
she did so with evident reluctance.

“Dorothy wishes to know where the ten-dollar bank note came from which
you gave her on Thursday,” he began stiffly. He both felt and resented
Vera’s altered attitude toward him. “My question is not prompted by
idle curiosity,” he explained before she could speak. “I will explain
later; just now I am in a hurry.”

Vera eyed him distrustfully. “It is hardly a question of any
importance; Millicent cashed a check for me in Washington the first of
the week, Monday to be exact--”

“Where did she cash the check?”

“At her bank I suppose,” coldly. “My check was good--”

“Oh, yes; it was nothing of that kind,” in embarrassment. “I’ll tell
you all about it bye and bye.” And he hastened downstairs, leaving Vera
staring after him in bewilderment.

Wyndham found the Secret Service agent waiting for him at the foot of
the staircase, his overcoat over his arm and hat in hand.

“I didn’t meet with much luck, Mr. Anthony,” he said. “The trail of the
counterfeiter doubles back to Washington.”

“Ah! Miss Dorothy Deane had it given to her there?”

“No; her sister, Miss Vera Deane, gave her the bill.” Wyndham came down
the remaining steps to assist Anthony on with his overcoat.

“Then Miss Vera Deane owned the bank note?” Anthony buttoned his coat
with exactitude. “And where did Miss Vera Deane secure the note?”

“My cousin, Miss Millicent Porter, cashed Miss Deane’s check on Monday
and gave her the money.”

Anthony regarded Wyndham in silence before putting another question.
“Where did your cousin cash the check?”

“At her bank,” mentioning a well-known establishment. “So you see, you
will have to commence your investigations in Washington.”

“It would seem so,” acknowledged Anthony, pausing on the portico as
Wyndham stood in the front doorway. “I am greatly obliged for your
courtesy. Good afternoon.” And hardly waiting to hear Wyndham’s hearty
assurance of renewed assistance if he required aid, Anthony ran down
the portico steps and walked toward the entrance of the grounds.

On reaching the lodge gates he signaled a waiting taxi, but as he was
about to enter and be driven back to Washington, an idea occurred to
him, and he curtly told the chauffeur to wait, then turning to the
lodgekeeper’s wife inquired the way to Thornedale.

“The next property, sor; you enter beyond,” called the Irishwoman,
pointing down the road to where a dilapidated gate hung on one hinge,
and, nodding his thanks, Anthony hastened to Thornedale.

In spite of its obvious need of repair the Secret Service agent was
impressed by the appearance of the old hunting lodge, with its rambling
wings, upper gallery, and gabled roof. The old place was picturesque in
its winter setting, and Anthony wondered at its air of emptiness. The
blinds in only a few of the rooms were drawn up, and the house appeared
deserted.

After repeated rings Anthony finally heard the chain being lowered, and
the door opened several inches to permit Cato’s black face to appear in
the crack.

“Dr. Thorne am out,” he volunteered, before Anthony could state his
errand, and made as if to shut the door, but the Secret Service agent’s
foot blocked his effort.

“I’ll wait for the doctor,” he said, holding out a visiting-card,
which Cato took, and, putting on a pair of horn spectacles, regarded
solemnly. The spectacles had been purchased from an itinerant merchant,
but he could not read, with or without the glasses; they were only for
the elegance which Cato thought went with his position in the family.

“Is yo’ come to see Marse Beverly professionally?” he asked, bringing
out the last word with a flourish.

“Yes,” responded Anthony quickly, and Cato’s manner thawed.

“Step right in, suh,” he said, throwing wide the door. “Dar’s a gen’man
awaitin’ a’ready. Ef yo’ jes’ make yo’self com’foble,” wheeling forward
a large chair. “De doctor’ll be ’long d’reckly. Dar he is now,” as the
portières were pulled back from the entrance to the dining-room. “No,
it ain’t, nuther,” he added, catching a glimpse of the newcomer. “It’s
Mister Mitchell. Is yo’ tired ob waitin’, suh?” as the detective walked
into the living-room.

“Didn’t I hear Dr. Thorne arrive?” asked Mitchell, looking about, and
at sight of Anthony he whistled in surprise. “You here? Anything wrong?”

“Feeling feverish,” returned Anthony, with a warning glance toward
Cato, who was shuffling toward the staircase. “I called to see Dr.
Thorne professionally.”

“Is that so?” Mitchell selected a chair near the fireplace. “I wasn’t
aware that Dr. Thorne ever had office practice.”

The remark was overheard by Cato, and he turned with a reproving air to
Mitchell.

“’Deed he do, an’ right smart patients come hyar from de city, too,”
warming to his subject as he saw Mitchell’s skeptical air. “Dat ’er’
gen’man what was murdered at de Porters’ was hyar to consult wid him on
Monday evenin’.”

“He was!” Mitchell nearly fell out of his chair, and recovering from
his astonishment regarded the negro intently. “Why haven’t you spoken
of it before?”

“’Cause I doan talk ’bout my marster’s affairs,” with offended dignity.
“But I wants you to unnerstan’, Mr. Detective Man, dat my marster has
de quality hyar same as always.”

“Sure, he does,” agreed Mitchell heartily. “But I’ve never seen an
office in this house, and was not aware that Dr. Thorne kept regular
office hours.”

“He do.” Cato looked somewhat mollified. “De office is out dat away,”
jerking his thumb toward one of the wings. “I’ll get some kindlin’ wood
an’ start de fire fo’ yo’ gen’men; it’s gettin’ colder.”

It was not until his hobbling footsteps had entirely died away that
Mitchell turned to the Secret Service agent.

“What brings you here, Anthony?” he questioned rapidly. “Surely not the
need for medical advice; you look as sound as a dollar.”

Anthony grinned cheerfully. “I have a clean bill of health,” he said.
“My ailment was a polite fiction invented for the benefit of the old
negro. The Chief told me that you were on the Brainard murder case, and
Headquarters said you were apt to be found here, so--I came.”

“What interest has the Chief in the Brainard murder?” demanded
Mitchell, his professional jealousy aroused. “Why has he sent you here?”

A subdued bumping and labored breathing announced the approach of
Cato, and Mitchell’s question remained unanswered as the old servant
shuffled over to the fireplace and proceeded to build a fire on the bed
of ashes. Anthony studied him for some little time in silence, then
becoming aware that Cato, while pretending to be absorbed in his work,
was covertly watching them, he turned and addressed Mitchell.

“I’ve heard that Dr. Thorne is a wonder at diagnosing a case--that he
has marvelous instinct--”

Cato faced about in wrath, one hand poised in air clutched a piece of
kindling. “What yo’ mean by sayin’ my marster’s got in_stinct_?” he
retorted. “He ain’t got no instinct--he’s got in_sense_.”

Anthony retreated out of reach of the kindling wood. “Everyone tells
me that Dr. Thorne is a fine physician,” he hastened to say. “I was
complimenting him.”

“Was yo’?” Cato looked doubtful. “Then I ax yo’ pardon.” He placed
the last piece of kindling on the hearth and throwing on several logs
paused to see them catch, and again hobbled from the room. Mitchell
waited a minute, then tiptoed to the door leading to the kitchen and
made sure that Cato had really disappeared. Finally convinced that Cato
was not within earshot, he turned to his companion.

“You haven’t answered my question. Why is the Secret Service interested
in Bruce Brainard’s murder?”

“It isn’t interested in the murder, that I am aware of,” replied
Anthony, moving his chair closer to Mitchell. “I was sent here to
trace a counterfeit Treasury note presented in payment at Brentano’s
store by Hugh Wyndham, and he tells me that the bank note was received
by Miss Millicent Porter when cashing a check at her bank.”

“Humph! it must have been a marvelous counterfeit to get by a bank
teller,” commented Mitchell. “So you had your trip here for nothing?”

“I am not so sure of that.” Anthony lowered his voice. “Wyndham told
me that the bank note was first given him by Miss Dorothy Deane; she
states that she received it from her sister, Vera Deane, and the latter
declares that she got it from Miss Millicent Porter, who cashed her
check in Washington on Monday morning.”

“Well, that’s straight enough,” exclaimed Mitchell impatiently. “Better
question the bank officials, Anthony.”

“I will--later. Just now I want a little information about the Deane
girls. Have you been in touch with them while investigating the
Brainard murder? I ask,” he added slowly, “because a bag containing
some counterfeit money was found on a street car. In the handbag was a
visiting-card bearing Vera Deane’s name. Taking that in consideration
with Wyndham’s statement that Miss Deane’s sister had given him the
counterfeit bill--it looks fishy.”

Mitchell smiled skeptically. “Come, come, you don’t think those two
former society girls made a counterfeit bill which would deceive a bank
teller? Why, Anthony, it takes years to perfect a good counterfeit.”

“I know it,” grumbled Anthony. “I don’t suspect them of being the
actual counterfeiters, but they may be affiliated with him, possibly
innocently, and be putting money in circulation without being aware of
the deception.”

“That’s an ingenious theory,” acknowledged Mitchell.

“Can you tell me who the Deane girls go with?” asked Anthony. “You’ve
been watching the Porter house ever since the discovery of Brainard’s
murder.”

“They haven’t been going with anyone in particular,” grumbled Mitchell,
not altogether liking the other’s tone. “Vera Deane, the nurse, stays
close indoors, and Dorothy Deane is mostly with Millicent Porter and
Hugh Wyndham. They haven’t seen any outsiders since I’ve been here.
I’ve always thought, however, that Vera Deane knows more than she will
admit about Brainard’s murder, but so far she has been too slick for me
to catch her tripping.”

“When is Miss Deane off duty?”

Mitchell looked at his watch. “She should be at leisure now.”

“Excellent.” Anthony rose. “I’ll return and ask to see her. Come with
me--?”

“I can’t.” Mitchell eyed his companion sharply; in spite of rivalry
they had always been friends, and he badly wanted advice. “Did you hear
Cato blurt out that Bruce Brainard was in this house on Monday evening?
It must have been before he went to dine at the Porters’, because he
never left that house alive.”

“Well, what if he did come here before going to the Porters’?” Anthony
stared at the detective. “What’s there in that to get excited about?”

“Why hasn’t Thorne ever spoken of knowing Brainard? Why has he never
alluded to Brainard’s visit on Monday?” Mitchell’s excitement, until
then bottled up, rose to fever heat. “Thorne and I have discussed
every phase of the murder, and he has never once said that he even knew
Brainard by sight. I don’t understand such conduct, unless--”

“Go slow,” cautioned Anthony hastily. “Just because the doctor doesn’t
take the world into his confidence about his numerous patients doesn’t
mean that he is a murderer.”

“Wait,” urged Mitchell. “Brainard’s throat was cut with a razor which
no one in the Porter household can identify--or will identify,” he
supplemented. “The razor belonged to a set. This morning I found five
razors, the mates to the one on Brainard’s bed, hidden in the muzzle
of an old cannon on this place, and I am convinced Beverly Thorne knew
they were in the cannon.”

“Did you see him place them there?”

“No, of course not,” reddening angrily. “I am waiting here to question
Thorne. He hasn’t been here since early this morning, according to
that old idiot, Cato. And it was this morning that I found Thorne and
Wyndham sitting together near the cannon.” Mitchell came to a full stop
as a new idea dawned upon him. “By gracious! I wonder if Wyndham knew
Thorne had secreted the razors in the cannon?”

“Ask him,” suggested Anthony and rose impatiently. “I’ve got to be
going. Don’t do too much guesswork, Mitchell; remember, you must find a
motive for murder. What motive would Dr. Thorne have for killing Brace
Brainard?”

The detective flushed. “What motive would Vera Deane have for planting
counterfeit money?” he growled. “Don’t go _too_ slow, Anthony, or your
counterfeiter will escape.”

“I’m not worrying.” Anthony smiled provokingly as he reached for his
hat. “Chief Connor has sent a dozen men over here. He believes in
following a hot trail, and I reckon we’ll get ‘Gentleman Charlie.’ See
you shortly.” And he left Mitchell sitting by the fire.




CHAPTER XIX

THE FIRST SHOT


MURRAY gave Mrs. Porter’s message to the chauffeur, and then took the
vacant seat in the roadster.

“Just drop me at the house,” he directed as the car left the garage.
“And, remember, Jones, Mrs. Porter says you must bring out a new nurse
from the hospital; that you are not to return without one. Here’s the
letter to the Washington doctor.”

“Whose place is the new nurse to take?” inquired the chauffeur,
slipping the note in his pocket. “Miss Deane’s or Mrs. Hall’s?”

“Mrs. Porter didn’t mention, but I hope it is Mrs. Hall who is to go,
she’s always complaining about the help.”

Jones nodded sympathetically. “Cook told me she was forever finding
fault with the food; says cook discriminates between her and Miss
Deane--now, there’s a lady for you, and a good-looker!” in a burst of
enthusiasm. “Catch her poking her nose in the garage the way Mrs. Hall
does. I came mighty near telling Mrs. Hall what I thought about her
when I caught her fooling ’round yesterday; said she wanted to see Mr.
Brainard’s car, and I told her the police had taken it away to return
to the company from which Mr. Brainard rented it.”

“Hey! you ain’t going in the right direction,” objected Murray, as the
chauffeur turned the car into the highway instead of taking the drive
which circled the house.

“Sorry”--putting on the brake--“I clean forgot.” Murray swung himself
to the ground as the chauffeur added: “Who’s that waving to us?”
catching sight of a man running toward them.

“I don’t know,” replied Murray, and delayed his return to the house as
the man came nearer. “Why, it’s the caller who waited to see Mr. Hugh
this afternoon, name of Anthony.”

“What’s he so excited about?” asked Jones, but before Murray could
hazard a guess the Secret Service agent had reached the car.

“Which one of you can show me the way to Elm Ridge?” he demanded,
displaying a roll of money.

“I can’t.” Jones suddenly recollected his errand. “Mrs. Porter has
ordered me to drive to Washington.” He eyed with regret the bank note
which Anthony peeled from the roll. “Go ahead, Murray,” he urged, “take
the gentleman where he wants to go. You ain’t needed at the house until
six o’clock.”

Murray wavered. The tip was a big one which Anthony held tantalizingly
in view, and Mrs. Porter had told him that tea was not to be served
that afternoon; as Jones said, he could be absent for an hour. Anthony
read his expression and thrust the money into his palm.

“Take me to Elm Ridge and back by a short cut and I’ll double the
amount,” he said.

Murray’s hesitation vanished, and with a wave of his hand to Jones, who
had already started down the highway, he set out across the fields, the
Secret Service agent at his elbow. They were in the heart of the woods
which skirted the southern boundary of the Porter and Thorne estates,
and were climbing the ridge when a man, catching sight of them,
advanced to meet Anthony.

“So Smoot reached you,” he exclaimed in relief. “I wasn’t quite sure
whether you’d be at Thornedale or the Porters’. Did he tell you--”

“Yes,” shutting off his assistant’s loquacity. “Where are the boys?”

“Farther up; they sent me here to meet you,” keeping step with Anthony
as Murray dropped a little behind. “An old darky went by some little
time ago, but I lost track of him.”

Anthony turned and signed to Murray to join them. “Take us the shortest
way to the top of the ridge,” he ordered, and the footman once again
led them up the steep incline.

They were almost at the top of the ridge when Anthony, stopping to get
his breath after a rapid spurt over the roughest of the climb, glanced
to their left where the ground dipped into a ravine, and saw a man
crouching behind a tree. Without rising, the latter signaled to the
Secret Service agent, and Anthony, bidding Murray and his assistant
come with him, hurried forward, and quickly reached the side of the
crouching sentinel.

“What is it, Boyd?” he asked, lowering his voice cautiously.

For answer the man pointed down the ravine and across a clearing to a
log cabin which abutted the hillside.

“We’ve trailed him there,” he said, “and are only waiting for a signal
to close in. Hark! was that a whistle?” Murray, to whom the question
was addressed, shook his head; he had not had such strenuous exercise
in years, and perspiration streamed down his face.

“I don’t hear a thing,” he muttered. The excitement of the others
was contagious, and under its influence the footman forgot class
distinction and nudged Anthony to get his attention. “Who are you and
what are you after?”

Anthony, never removing his eyes from the cabin, displayed his badge.
“We are trailing a dangerous counterfeiter,” he explained. “You’d
better go home, you may get hurt.” Not waiting to see if his advice was
followed, he beckoned to Boyd and his assistant. “Come ahead; we’ll
rush the cabin.”

The men started down the ravine simultaneously, leaving Murray
standing by the tree. The footman fidgeted for a second and glanced
backward--the Secret Service agent’s advice was sound; his place was
at the Porter mansion; it was not his business to assist in arresting
malefactors. Murray glanced again at the men hastening toward the log
cabin, and throwing reason to the far winds, he tore down the ravine,
and caught up with them at the edge of the clearing.

A shot rang out, and Anthony, slightly in the lead, faltered. But its
echoes had hardly ceased to resound through the stillness when a second
shot broke on their ears. With a muttered curse Anthony sprang forward
and threw himself through the partly open cabin door, the other men
following pellmell.

Murray, the last to enter, stood appalled as he peered over Anthony’s
shoulder at the tableau confronting them, then looked dumbly about
the disordered cabin. Two large screens tumbled to one side, tables
and chairs overturned, made a dramatic setting for the still figure
lying crumpled up on the floor and the man crouching above it, a still
smoking revolver held aloft. As the latter turned and faced the Secret
Service operatives a strangled exclamation broke from Murray.

“Dr. Thorne!”

Thorne tossed the revolver to Anthony. “Take charge of that,” he said.
“Have that window opened and switch on the lights,” nodding to a lamp,
and Boyd turned on the current. “I must see how badly Dr. Noyes has
hurt himself.”

Anthony clutched the revolver, his eyes never leaving Thorne.

“Do you mean to say that Dr. Noyes shot himself?” he demanded.

“I do,” calmly, and Thorne busied himself in making a superficial
examination of the wound. “Fortunately the bullet did not enter a vital
point; lend me your handkerchiefs.” And with the assistance of Anthony
he bound up the wound and rendered first aid. “Murray,” addressing the
agitated footman whose fingers had been all thumbs in his efforts to
help restore Noyes to consciousness, “return at once to the Porters’
and have Noyes’ room prepared for him, but first stop at my house for
surgical supplies.”

“Very good, sir,” and only lingering for one curious glance about the
cabin, Murray departed.

“Suppose two of you take the door off its hinges,” went on Thorne. “We
can carry Noyes home on that.” Boyd hesitated and looked at Anthony for
orders. Thorne was quick to note their suspicious glances. “Who are
you?” he asked, as Anthony returned from a tour of inspection.

“We are members of the United States Secret Service,” and again Anthony
displayed his badge. “We came here to arrest a notorious counterfeiter.”

“Sorry to disappoint you,” remarked Thorne dryly.

Anthony flushed scarlet. “I find enough contraband property here to
convict the owner as a dangerous counterfeiter,” he said. “You have not
yet explained your presence, Dr. Thorne.”

“My presence can be attributed to idle curiosity,” was Thorne’s
tranquil answer as the men gathered about him. “I was passing the
cabin, saw the door standing ajar, and entered. I had been here only a
very few minutes when I heard a shot and tearing aside that screen,”
pointing to it, “saw poor Noyes fall to the floor. I had just taken the
revolver from him when you entered so spectacularly.”

Anthony did not miss a word of Thorne’s explanation. “You claim, then,
that you did not know anyone else was in the cabin until you heard the
shot?”

“I mean exactly that,” with emphasis. “I thought I was alone in the
cabin. I haven’t the faintest idea what brought Dr. Noyes, the English
surgeon who is visiting the Porters,” he interpolated, “to this cabin.”

“He can explain that when he regains consciousness,” exclaimed Anthony.
“It will not take us long to carry him to the Porters’, if you think it
safe to move him.”

“I do.” And Thorne made ready to rise from his place by Noyes. “By the
way, before hearing the report of Noyes’ revolver, I heard a shot--who
fired the _first_ shot?”

“That is for you to explain.” Anthony stooped under a table and picked
up a revolver. With a deft turn of his wrist he opened the breech. “One
chamber has been fired.”




CHAPTER XX

KA


DETECTIVE Mitchell hung up the telephone receiver and sat glaring at
the instrument.

“Well, I’m d--ned!” he muttered. It was some moments before he rose and
went in search of Cato, but although he hunted through the entire first
floor of Thornedale and called upstairs until he was hoarse, Mitchell
was unable to find the old negro, and at last gave up the search. Over
an hour had elapsed since the departure of Anthony, the Secret Service
agent, and still Thorne had not returned. Mitchell’s impatience got the
better of him, and, not troubling to leave a written message, he left
the house and walked rapidly to Dewdrop Inn.

Mrs. Porter, dressed for walking, was standing in the front doorway
as Mitchell came up the steps, and she greeted his appearance with a
frown.

“Do you desire to see me?” she inquired. “I am just going out.”

Mitchell, however, did not stand aside for her to walk past him.

“I am very sorry, madam, to detain you,” he said firmly. “But it is
imperative that I have a talk with you at once.”

Mrs. Porter whitened under her rouge. “It is quite unnecessary to adopt
that tone to me,” she retorted. “I can spare you a few minutes, not
more. Walk inside,” and she stepped back into the hall.

Mitchell closed the front door with a bang and tossed his hat and
overcoat on the hall table.

“Has Dr. Alan Noyes returned from the court house?” he asked.

“Not yet.” Mrs. Porter moistened her lips nervously. “I expect him here
at any moment.”

“Suppose we go into the library,” suggested Mitchell, seeing that she
made no sign to admit him further into the house. “Then, kindly oblige
me by sending for Miss Deane.”

Mitchell had not troubled to lower his voice, and his words were
distinctly audible to Dorothy Deane, who was sitting on the top step
of the staircase. She waited until she heard Mrs. Porter and Mitchell
go in the direction of the library, then sped to Craig Porter’s door
and, jerking it open, she beckoned to her sister to come into the hall.

“Vera,” she said in little more than a whisper, “Alan Noyes is
evidently detained at the court house, and--and--Detective Mitchell is
down in the library waiting to see you.”

Vera stood as if turned into marble, then she drew a long, painful
breath.

“Very well”--her voice was not quite steady, and she cleared her throat
before continuing--“I will see Detective Mitchell at once. Where is
Hugh Wyndham?”

Dorothy flinched, and her eyes fell before her sister’s direct gaze.
“I don’t know--I can’t find him anywhere about the place. Oh, Vera,”
coloring painfully, “must you tell _all_?”

Vera nodded. “It would have been better had I been frank in the first
place,” she said dully. “God knows, I acted for the best. I can’t leave
Craig Porter alone, Dorothy. Where is Mrs. Hall?”

“With Millicent, I suppose. I haven’t seen her lately.”

“Then you sit with Craig until I return.” Vera pushed Dorothy gently
through the doorway. “Call me if he requires medical assistance.” And
pulling the door shut before Dorothy could recover from her surprise,
Vera squared her shoulders and walked downstairs.

Dorothy continued to stare at the closed door for some seconds, then
turned her attention to Craig Porter, but his emaciated appearance
was a distinct shock to her, and when she looked away her eyes were
blurred with tears. Afraid to give way in the slightest degree to her
emotions for fear they would master her, she walked back and forth with
noiseless tread.

The minutes seemed endless, and in agony over the scene which her
active imagination painted going on in the library, Dorothy at last
paused before the huge mirror over the mantel and stared at herself.
Dark circles under her eyes and her total lack of color told plainly
of mental anguish, and with a shudder she moved away. The desk next
attracted her wandering attention, and she picked up the nurse’s
chart and a pencil and subconsciously read the last entry in Vera’s
handwriting: “Patient continues plucking at clothing.”

Dropping the chart she walked over to the foot of the bed and regarded
Craig Porter. A great pity for him drove, for the moment, her own
problems out of her mind. They had been “pals” while she was at
boarding-school and he a junior at Yale, and as memories returned of
his merry disposition and gallant bearing a lump rose in her throat,
and she hastily looked away.

A glance at the open transom over the head of Craig’s bed sent her
thoughts again to the tragedy enacted in the next room on Tuesday
morning.

“Only four days ago,” she murmured, and choked back a sob. Again she
looked at Craig. He lay rigidly on his back, his eyes half closed, and
she wondered if he could be asleep or unconscious. The only indication
of life was the moving finger plucking always at the sheet drawn across
his chest.

Dorothy’s thoughts again reverted to Vera and Detective Mitchell.
What was transpiring in the library? It was cruel to keep her in such
suspense. In her extreme nervousness she drummed the pencil which she
still held against the footboard of the bed, and her eyes resting still
on Craig’s hand, she unconsciously beat time to his slow-moving finger.

Painfully, laboriously the finger moved back a longer distance, then
a shorter distance, then longer--and Dorothy’s pencil beat out each
stroke: -- · -- · --

The tap of her pencil penetrated her absent-mindedness, and Dorothy
stared at Craig--what had possessed her to spell out “KA,” the wireless
“attention” call which precedes every transmission?

Again her eyes traveled to Craig’s hand, and the moving finger in
contrast to his motionless figure and expressionless face fascinated
her. Again she spelled out the “attention” signal, her pencil tapping
off each short or long movement of his finger. But this time the “KA”
signal was followed by her initials, and the signal: · -- ···, “wait.”

Dorothy, half doubting her senses, tapped off: -- · -- “K,” the
official call to “go ahead.”

Craig’s finger remained motionless for a longer period, then once again
it spelled a message to her, and as she caught its full significance,
she with difficulty checked a scream. With shaking fingers she tapped
out the question:

“Who murdered Bruce Brainard?”

Breathlessly she waited for the response.

Slowly, very slowly Craig’s finger checked off the answer, and Dorothy,
her senses reeling, leaned far over the bed and looked into Craig’s
eyes. They held the light of reason. With a choking sob she sank
senseless to the floor.




CHAPTER XXI

BLIND MAN’S BUFF


VERA glanced neither to the right nor to the left as she walked with
firm steps toward the library, and thereby missed seeing a face peering
at her from behind the folds of the portières which hung in front of
the reception-room entrance. Her fixed resolve to get the interview
with Detective Mitchell over and done with aided her in suppressing
all sign of agitation, and her demeanor was calm and collected when
she approached Mrs. Porter, who occupied her customary seat before the
library table. Mitchell had planted himself at the opposite side of the
table and spread several typewritten sheets before him. He did not rise
on Vera’s entrance.

Mrs. Porter, who sat with one eye on the door, was the first to address
Vera.

“Detective Mitchell desires to question you, Vera,” she said. “Sit here
by me.” And she touched the girl reassuringly.

Vera almost exclaimed aloud at the coldness of her fingers. “Are you
having a chill, Mrs. Porter?” she asked in alarm, observing the bluish
hue of her lips. “Would you like some brandy?”

“No.” Mrs. Porter’s tone did not encourage further solicitude. “As soon
as Mr. Mitchell completes his visit I shall go for a walk. Continue
your remarks, Mr. Mitchell.”

Mitchell was about to comply with her injunction when Vera, who had
remained standing by Mrs. Porter, spoke first.

“I have heard that Dr. Alan Noyes has been arrested for the murder of
Mr. Bruce Brainard. Is that correct?”

“Yes.” Mitchell, keeping his finger at a certain point in the
manuscript before him, watched Vera closely.

“Then the police have acted most unjustly,” exclaimed Vera vehemently.
“Dr. Noyes is innocent.”

“Your grounds for that assertion?”

Vera hesitated, glanced dubiously at Mrs. Porter, whose adamantine
expression gave her no encouragement, and then addressed Mitchell.

“I believe--” Her clear voice faltered, and she commenced again. “I
believe that no murder was committed--Mr. Brainard killed himself.”

Mitchell made no attempt to conceal his incredulity. “Medical evidence
proves that the wound in his throat could not have been self-inflicted
except by a left-handed man,” he rejoined. “And reputable witnesses
have proved that Bruce Brainard was _not_ left-handed.”

“But he was ambidextrous,” retorted Vera. “He could shave himself with
equal facility with either hand.”

Mitchell stared at her astounded, while Mrs. Porter, hanging on her
words, drew a deep, deep breath.

“Where did you learn that about Bruce Brainard?” demanded Mitchell.

Vera met the detective’s accusing gaze squarely. “He told me so
himself.”

“What?” Mitchell leaned across the table in his eagerness. “Did
Brainard tell you that he was ambidextrous on Monday night?”

“No.”

“Then you had known him before Monday night?”

“I had.”

Mitchell sat back in his chair and scowled at Vera.

“Why did you not mention in your testimony at the inquest on Tuesday
that you had known Bruce Brainard formerly?” His manner was stern. “You
gave us to understand that you had not met Brainard until sent for to
attend him after dinner on Monday night.”

“I was not asked the direct question as to whether we had ever met
before,” replied Vera. “I did not volunteer the information because--”

“Because it would have led to an investigation of your acquaintance
with him,” with insolent meaning, and Vera, her hot blood dancing in
her veins, stepped nearer the detective, her eyes blazing with pent-up
wrath.

Mrs. Porter, rising suddenly, intervened. “Stop, Mr. Mitchell; if you
insult Miss Deane I shall have my servants eject you,” she said, and
her slow, level tones warned the detective that he must not go too far
in his heckling tactics. But before he could resume questioning Vera
the library door, which she had left ajar on entering, was pushed open
and Mrs. Hall came into the room.

“I couldn’t help overhearing what has just been said,” she began,
ignoring Mrs. Porter’s indignant glare. “I was on my way to the pantry
to get some bouillon for Miss Porter when I heard you talking.” She
looked meaningly at Vera. “I’ve held my peace, Miss Deane, out of
kindness to you; but now that Dr. Noyes is accused of killing Mr.
Brainard it’s time for me to tell the detectives what I know about you.”

Vera gazed at her in amazement too deep for expression, while Mitchell,
his eyes shining with excitement, stepped from behind the table.

“Go on, Mrs. Hall,” he said encouragingly. “Tell me everything.”

“I will.” Mrs. Hall paused dramatically. “On Tuesday morning about
four o’clock I was awakened by hearing someone moving about in the
dressing-room which connects our bedroom with Mr. Porter’s. I got up
and looked through the partly open door and was surprised to see Miss
Deane slipping on a fresh white skirt, while before her stretched over
the stationary washstand was another skirt on which were bloodstains.”
A low cry from Mrs. Porter interrupted her, and Mrs. Hall paused, to
continue more rapidly as she met Vera’s indignant gaze.

“There was something secretive in Miss Deane’s air that stopped my
impulse to ask her what she was about, and I went at once by way of
the hall to Mr. Porter’s bedroom, thinking perhaps he might have had
a hemorrhage; but I found him lying as usual, apparently asleep. I
did not then know that Mr. Brainard was in the next bedroom. Thinking
Miss Deane had had a nosebleed I went back to my room and to bed, as
I had not been well the day before and needed rest. Some time later
Miss Deane came in carrying a skirt in her hand. Hanging it up in the
closet, she returned to Mr. Porter’s bedroom.”

“What happened after that?” prompted Mitchell as she stopped.

“I got out of bed and went over to the closet and examined the white
skirt which Miss Deane had hung there a few minutes before. The
bloodstains had been carefully removed with the aid of cornstarch, and
a hot iron passed over the skirt. There is an electric iron and battery
for our use in the dressing-room,” she supplemented. “The white skirt
bore Miss Deane’s initials inside the belt.”

“Why have you not told all this before?” asked Mrs. Porter, staring at
Mrs. Hall with intense dislike discernible.

“I waited, hoping that Miss Deane would voluntarily explain her
connection with the murder of Mr. Brainard.” Mrs. Hall moved uneasily;
she was not pleased with the rôle Fate had cast for her, but a growing
jealousy, fostered by envy, kept her to her determination to tell all
she surmised against Vera Deane. “As Miss Deane has not done so, and is
sheltering herself behind the arrest of an innocent man--”

“Stop!” commanded Mrs. Porter. “Your unsupported charges cannot involve
Vera Deane in Bruce Brainard’s murder.”

“Ah, but they can, in view of what I already know,” broke in Mitchell
triumphantly. “Police Headquarters in Pittsburgh reported to me on the
long-distance telephone, Miss Deane, that they had found among the
court records a certificate of the marriage of Bruce Brainard and your
sister, Dorothy.”

Mrs. Porter collapsed in her chair in speechless astonishment and
stared at Vera, whose set face was as white as her linen uniform.

“Is this true?” she gasped.

“Yes,” replied Vera. “They were married just after Dorothy left
boarding-school. She met Bruce while visiting the Arnolds in Chicago;
it was a runaway match.”

Mitchell, who had listened closely to her statement, nodded his head.
“So I learned, and my assistant, who has been investigating Brainard’s
past career, also told me that Brainard deserted your sister two months
after their elopement. He also refused to support her.”

“On the contrary, my sister declined to be supported by him when she
found what manner of man she had married,” retorted Vera proudly. “She
also refused to use his name, and never announced her marriage.”

“But you knew it, and you knew what she had suffered at Brainard’s
hands,” broke in Mitchell roughly. “Do you deny this?”

“No.”

Mitchell’s smile was not pleasant. “Were you also aware that your, eh,
brother-in-law’s engagement to Miss Millicent Porter was announced on
Monday night?”

“Yes.” Vera’s gaze did not shift and her voice was steady. “Mr. Hugh
Wyndham told me of the rumored engagement.”

“Hugh!” Mrs. Porter raised her hands to her temples in bewilderment.
“Did Hugh know that Dorothy was the wife of Bruce Brainard?”

“Yes.” Vera’s cold hands closed convulsively over the chair back
against which she was leaning. “Dorothy was honest with him, Mrs.
Porter.”

“Poor Hugh!” exclaimed Mrs. Porter, her eyes filling with tears. “He
loves her devotedly.”

Mitchell moved impatiently. “Miss Deane, I want your full attention,”
he announced brusquely. “You have asserted that Bruce Brainard
committed suicide. Where did he get the razor?”

Vera paused; should she speak of the razor which Millicent had dropped
in her flight from the house the night before? After all, had Millicent
dropped it? Was it fair to involve Millicent until she had first had an
opportunity to explain?

Mitchell repeated his question with more emphasis: “Where did Brainard
get the razor?”

“I don’t know.”

The detective moved closer. “Your theory is good, but it doesn’t hold
water,” he declared. “You recognized Bruce Brainard as your sister’s
husband; you knew of his despicable conduct to your sister; you had
just heard that he considered himself engaged to Miss Millicent Porter,
in spite of the fact that the law courts would hold him legally married
to your sister.” Vera stirred uneasily. “You had Bruce Brainard here at
your mercy--and Mrs. Hall saw you, nearly two hours before you admitted
discovering the murder, removing bloodstains from your dress. Oh, come,
you might as well confess--and claim the leniency of the court.”

“I will claim nothing but fair play,” cried Vera hotly. “I am innocent.
I did not kill Bruce Brainard, much as I loathed and despised him.”

“Then who did kill him?”

Mrs. Hall, who had drawn back as Mitchell approached Vera, was roughly
pushed aside as Hugh Wyndham, making no attempt to conceal his anger,
stepped in front of the detective.

“What’s going on here? What foolery are you up to, Mitchell?” he
demanded. “Vera, there’s no law which compels you to answer this man’s
questions.”

A clamor in the hall, which grew louder as footsteps approached,
drowned Vera’s answer, and Millicent Porter, clutching Murray’s coat
sleeve, burst into the room with the footman.

“There, there, miss, don’t take on so,” pleaded Murray, hardly noticing
the others in the library in his endeavor to calm Millicent. “I told
you he wasn’t dead.”

But Millicent was past calming and, her dressing-gown fluttering with
the haste of her movements, she flung herself into her mother’s arms.

“Mother!” she moaned. “Alan has tried to kill himself. Oh, you must
tell the police that the razor belonged to Craig.”

A startled exclamation broke from Mitchell and Mrs. Porter winced.

“How would that clear Alan Noyes?” she asked bitterly. “I presented the
set to Alan on Monday morning.”

“But you know he never took them, mother,” pleaded Millicent, her eyes
dark with terror. “I found the set in your boudoir on Tuesday morning.”

“But one razor was missing--” The comment escaped Mrs. Porter
unwittingly in the agitation of the moment.

“Hush! Mother, how could you?” Millicent clapped her hand on Mrs.
Porter’s mouth and glanced fearfully around, to encounter Mitchell’s
eager gaze, and shuddering she looked away.

Wyndham, who had listened to Millicent with tense eagerness, turned
with such suddenness that he collided against the large leather bag
which Murray was holding, having, in his excitement, forgotten to
put it down. The bag, insecurely fastened, burst open and out rolled
splints and bandages and a miscellaneous array of surgical instruments
and a razor. Wyndham reached for it, but Mitchell jostled him to one
side and picked it up.

“The razor is one of the set!” he cried. “Where did you get that bag,
Murray?” clutching the footman and giving him a shake. “Answer!”

“From Dr. Thorne’s office, sir,” stammered Murray. “The doctor sent
me back to say that Dr. Noyes had shot himself and for the nurses to
prepare his room; he also told me to stop at Thornedale to get surgical
dressings. The old butler didn’t answer the bell, so I climbed through
a window and found this bag sitting in his office. I looked in it and
seeing bandages and splints brought it along just as it was.”

Vera looked quickly at Mitchell and his expression gave her the key to
his thoughts--good heavens! Would he try to fix the crime upon Beverly
Thorne? Could it be that Thorne, like the others, had believed her
guilty of Brainard’s murder and had taken the razor from her so that it
would not be found in her possession and further incriminate her? If
so, he had jeopardized himself to protect her. Her face flamed at the
thought.

“I can explain Dr. Thorne’s possession of the razor,” she said clearly.
“He got it from me.”

“He did!” Mitchell wheeled on her. “So you admit at last that _you_ had
the razors.”

“I admit that I picked up the razor after Millicent dropped it last
night,” retorted Vera.

“Millicent!” gasped Mrs. Porter.

“I thought I hid all six in the cannon,” faltered Millicent,
raising miserable, hunted eyes to Mitchell. “I admit I had the
set--because--because--Murray, where did Dr. Noyes shoot himself?”
turning desperately to the footman.

“At that lean-to near the top of Elm Ridge.” Murray’s eyes lighted on
Mrs. Hall, who was edging her way to the door unobtrusively. “I went
upstairs to find you, Mrs. Hall, to tell you they were bringing Dr.
Noyes home, but I ran into Miss Millicent and she seen I was a little
excited,” with an apologetic glance at Mrs. Porter, who was paying
scant attention to him as she strove to quiet Millicent. “She made me
tell her about Dr. Noyes.”

Nurse Hall, finding attention centered upon her, colored.

“I will go up and arrange the room now, that is, if I am not required
here.”

“You can go,” directed Mitchell. “But remember, I must see you later.”

“Yes, sir.” And Mrs. Hall slipped away, only to return a moment later.
“They are bringing Dr. Noyes in the front door, now,” she announced.
“And there’s a gentleman asking for you, Mr. Mitchell.”

Before Mitchell reached the hall door Sam Anthony, the Secret Service
agent, appeared at the threshold. “Bring Dr. Noyes in here,” he
called over his shoulder. Then addressing Mitchell: “He’s regained
consciousness.”

There was a surging toward the door of Mitchell, Wyndham and Murray,
but they halted as two Secret Service operatives came in supporting
Alan Noyes, who walked between them, Beverly Thorne’s arm steadying him
from behind.

Noyes stopped at sight of Mitchell, and leaned wearily against Thorne.

“I asked for you,” he began. “To give myself up for the murder of Bruce
Brainard.”




CHAPTER XXII

“THE MOVING FINGER WRITES--”


A HEARTRENDING scream broke from Millicent, and running to Noyes she
flung herself at his feet.

“Alan, you never did it!” she protested vehemently. “You know you never
did it.”

“Don’t,” he pleaded, grasping her hand weakly as the men helped him to
the leather lounge. Once seated, he turned to Mitchell. “Take down what
I say,” he commenced. “Miss Porter and I quarreled Monday evening, just
before dinner, and I threatened to kill Brainard--”

“Why?” asked Mitchell as he paused.

Noyes avoided looking at anyone in particular. “Blind fury,” he
admitted faintly. “I’ve been like that from a boy, whenever I couldn’t
have my own way. I had just heard that Brainard was to marry the girl I
loved--” His voice shook and he broke off abruptly.

Mrs. Porter rose; she had aged perceptibly. “I tried my best to
shield you, Alan--I can never forget all you have done for my son; my
gratitude--” She could not control her voice and paused, then resumed,
more slowly: “Millicent would not trust me, would not confide in me.
Fearing her diary, in which she had been foolish enough to betray her
growing affection for you, Alan, and in which she mentioned you had
threatened to kill Bruce, would establish a motive for the crime if the
detectives found the diary, I burned it.” She shuddered. “Remember,
Alan, you had run away--”

Noyes eyed her hopelessly. “There was nothing left for me to do but
to go. As soon as my bag was packed I telephoned to my cousin, Mason
Galbraith, who owns an estate across the river, and he met me at the
wharf with his motor boat. I spent two days with him, but I had to come
back to see--” He sighed and looked significantly at Mitchell. The
pain of his wound and his conflicting emotions were wearing down his
strength, and he felt that he could endure no more. “That is all, I
think.”

“Just a moment.” Anthony stepped forward briskly. “Kindly answer a few
questions. Why did you try to kill yourself in the cabin and where did
you get your revolver?”

“I was despondent, discouraged when I left the court house, and went
into a shop in Alexandria and purchased a revolver while Wyndham stayed
in court to engage a lawyer.”

“Had you been to the cabin before?” shooting a swift glance at him.
“Were you familiar with its contents?”

“I have passed the cabin on several of my rambles through the woods,
but never had been inside it. As I went by the cabin I saw the door was
insecurely fastened and went in.”

“Did you find Dr. Thorne in the cabin?”

“No.” Beverly Thorne, who had been scrutinizing each person in the
room, his gaze resting longest on Vera, who avoided looking at him,
could not repress a smile as he saw Anthony’s chagrin. “No one was in
the cabin but myself,” continued Noyes. “The stillness of the place got
on my nerves, and I drew out my revolver--” He stopped and tried to
withdraw his hand from Millicent’s detaining clasp. “I heard someone
approaching the cabin and darted behind the screen, not caring to meet
anyone--then a shot startled me, and my revolver went off almost
simultaneously, and my aim was poor--” His attempt at a smile was
ghastly.

His companions were drinking in his words as they stood in a semicircle
about the lounge on which Millicent had sunk beside Noyes. Mitchell,
who was across from Thorne, saw him watching Vera, and turned his
attention to her, but Anthony’s next words riveted his thoughts again
on Noyes.

“You say you heard a shot, Dr. Noyes?” questioned Anthony. “From which
direction did the shot come?”

“From outside the cabin,” promptly. “It was somewhat muffled.”

“You are sure it was not fired in the cabin?”

“I am.”

Anthony turned bluntly to Thorne. “I guess that lets you out of _one_
charge--you didn’t shoot Dr. Noyes, but--we still have to establish the
identity of ‘Gentleman Charlie,’ the counterfeiter.”

Thorne eyed the Secret Service agent in surprise mixed with amusement,
but before he could reply Mitchell addressed him briskly.

“Suppose you tell me, Dr. Thorne, why Bruce Brainard stopped to see you
on Monday evening before coming here, and why you never spoke of his
visit.”

“Brainard had an attack of vertigo on the way here, and, meeting Cato,
asked to be directed to the nearest physician,” replied Thorne. “So
Cato brought him to me.”

Millicent, who had listened to Noyes’ statements in dumb agony, looked
up at Thorne. “Bruce told me that he had stopped to see you, and
Tuesday morning when I discovered Bruce lying in bed with his throat
cut and recognized the razor, I--I--rushed to the telephone to ask you
to come over, but Vera came and frightened me away before I got you.”

Noyes struggled to sit up. Millicent’s statement had caught him off
guard.

“You discovered Brainard’s murder on Tuesday morning?” he asked
incredulously. “You went back to his bedroom again?”

Mitchell was the first to grasp the significance of Noyes’ remark.

“What’s this?” he demanded. “What do you mean to insinuate--that Miss
Porter was in Bruce Brainard’s bedroom on Monday night?”

“She was,” responded a voice from the doorway, and Wyndham, spinning
around, saw Dorothy Deane advancing into the room. She looked
desperately ill and staggered rather than walked. “Millicent was seen
in Bruce’s bedroom by her brother Craig,” Dorothy added.

Her listeners eyed her in astonishment too deep for expression. Wyndham
was the first to recover himself. “Come with me, dear,” he said
soothingly. “You are ill, delirious.”

Dorothy shook off Wyndham’s detaining hand and walked over to
Millicent. “Your brother saw you enter Bruce Brainard’s bedroom at two
o’clock on Tuesday morning, and you carried a razor.”

“You lie!” Noyes’ voice rang out bravely, but his agonized expression
contradicted his words. “Craig Porter is a hopeless paralytic. He can
neither leave his bed nor speak.”

Dorothy did not shrink before his furious glare.

“True, Craig cannot speak and he cannot get out of bed,” she admitted.
“But he has regained the use of his first finger, and with that he
signaled to me, using the Continental wireless code, that from his
position in bed he can see what transpires in the next bedroom.”

“How?” demanded Mitchell.

“You remember that there is a huge old-fashioned mirror facing Craig; a
similar mirror hangs directly opposite in the next bedroom and through
the open transom over Craig’s bed whatever transpires in the next
bedroom is reflected by one mirror from the angle at which it is hung
into the other.”

“Well, by--!” Mitchell stared dazedly at Dorothy. “And the bed Craig
Porter occupies and the one Brainard occupied are backed against the
wall which separates the two bedrooms, and both the mirrors face the
beds.”

Mrs. Porter, her face ashy, looked appealingly at Dorothy. “What did
Craig see on Tuesday morning?” she mumbled rather than asked.

Vera, waiting breathlessly, was dimly conscious of Wyndham’s heavy
breathing.

“Craig caught a glimpse of Millicent approaching the bed, a razor
clasped tightly in her raised hand, then she disappeared out of
his line of vision.” Dorothy’s hands were opening and closing
spasmodically; she dared not glance at Wyndham for fear of breaking
down. Alan Noyes’ agony was pitiful to witness as he sat forward
striving to shield Millicent who crouched by his side, his one arm
about her. Dorothy’s statement held her spellbound.

“Craig said a little time elapsed,” went on Dorothy, and her voice
sounded strained and harsh in the tense stillness. “Then the night
light in Brainard’s bedroom was augmented by a powerful flashlight
standing on the bed-table, and Craig saw the bed and Bruce lying in it
with distinctness; he also saw a figure crouching by the bed, one hand
groping for the razor which lay near Brainard. The next instant there
was a sharp struggle and the murderer, straightening up, turned as if
to listen, and faced the mirror-- Don’t try to escape, Murray.”

The footman, edging toward the door, before which stood the Secret
Service operative, swallowed hard and sat down.

“The game’s up,” he acknowledged insolently. “Well, which is going to
claim the honor of arresting ‘Gentleman Charlie’--the Secret Service or
Detective Headquarters? Don’t all speak at once, gentlemen,” and his
jeering laugh awoke the others from their stupor.




CHAPTER XXIII

OUT OF THE MAZE


WITH a bound Detective Mitchell was by the footman’s side; a click, and
handcuffs dangled from his wrists. It seemed a useless precaution, as
Murray evinced no desire to be troublesome but sat and regarded them
with a sardonic grin.

“What’s the charge?” he demanded, ignoring Anthony’s presence at his
other elbow.

“The murder of Bruce Brainard on Tuesday morning,” responded the
detective. “I warn you that anything you say will be used against you.”

“Thanks.” Murray grinned again. “Between Miss Dorothy and Mr. Craig
you’ve got evidence enough to convict me.”

Mrs. Porter, who had been gazing at the pseudo-footman in horrified
amazement, found her voice.

“Do you mean to say that you killed my guest, Bruce Brainard?” she
demanded.

“That is what your son claims,” answered Murray.

“Why did you kill him? You had seen him at my house many times before?”
Mrs. Porter sat down in the nearest chair; she was weak from nervous
strain and its reaction.

“Why did I kill Bruce?” Murray cleared his throat. “We had worked
together years ago at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and he
was the only man living who knew something of my subsequent career.”
Murray’s handcuffs jingled as he moved uneasily. “But Brainard never
penetrated my disguise until Monday night when I assisted him into the
library. He had overheard Miss Millicent’s quarrel with Dr. Noyes, and
it brought on some sort of an attack. I was in my shirt sleeves, and in
helping him inside the library he tore my sleeve and saw a tattoo mark
which he had made on my arm while we were working together. He knew
my record up to ten years ago. I told him that I had reformed and was
trying to live a different life; and he promised to give me a chance,
but I could see by his manner that he was planning to give Mrs. Porter
a tip as to my real character.”

“I hardly think I would have believed him,” affirmed Mrs. Porter
faintly. “You have been a model servant all these years, Murray.”

Murray looked gratified. “I flatter myself I played my part well, and
in my leisure hours I fitted up the cabin and perfected a wonderful
counterfeit.”

“You did,” agreed the Secret Service agent, “but you slipped up when
you lost Miss Deane’s bag in the street car.”

Murray shifted his position to look directly at Vera who stood somewhat
behind Mrs. Porter and in the shadow of a high-back chair.

“It wasn’t Miss Deane’s bag,” he admitted. “It was one I gave Cato--”
Thorne started and gazed blankly at the counterfeiter.--“Don’t blame
Cato, Dr. Thorne; he’s a faithful old darky with a fondness for
collecting money. He believed me an eccentric inventor, and I paid him
well for doing errands for me, as well as pledging him a share in my
‘patent rights,’ and it was by his aid that I got my material to the
cabin. By the way,” addressing Anthony, “the first shot you heard at
the cabin today was fired by one of your sentries higher up the ridge
at Cato, and I suspect the old man’s running yet. I was looking in
that direction while you were staring at the cabin and I saw the whole
thing.”

“How did my card come to be in the bag, Murray?” asked Vera.

“I found it among some old papers in Brainard’s overcoat. I burned the
papers at the cabin, but your card was inadvertently slipped into the
bag with the money Cato was taking to-- That doesn’t interest you,”
with a sidelong glance at the detective, “so I won’t mention names.”

Mitchell regarded him sourly for a second. “Cato can talk,” he said
meaningly, then turned to Vera. “Did you observe Murray’s flashlight in
Brainard’s bedroom on Monday night, Miss Deane?”

“No.” Vera moved a little forward and addressed them all. “I went
some time after midnight to see how Mr. Brainard was getting on, and
after my return to Craig’s bedroom I sat almost with my back to the
mirror and sideways to the bed in a big wing chair. I did not glance
upward toward the transom but recall staring steadily at Craig, whom I
could see but dimly, and all the while I thought of nothing but Bruce
Brainard’s treatment of my sister.” Vera paused a second to steady her
voice, then continued: “It seemed bitter irony that I should be nursing
him. The news that he and Millicent might be engaged shocked me, and I
was only waiting until the morning to tell Mrs. Porter all that I knew
about Bruce.” She stopped to clear her voice which had grown husky.

“At about three o’clock or a little after I went into Bruce’s room and
was astounded to find the night light out. I felt my way to the bed
and over to the table, found a box of matches and relit the candle.”
Her eyes grew large with horror as the gruesome scene came vividly
before her. “The sight of Bruce lying there dead deprived me of my
voice, almost of my reason. Some minutes passed before I could pull
myself together, then glancing down I saw that in searching for the
matches I had brushed against the side of the bed and that my skirt was
blood-stained.” Vera stumbled in her speech. “The last time I saw Bruce
I told him that I hoped he would meet with a violent death--that was
five years ago--and my spoken wish had been fulfilled.”

“Vera,” Dorothy approached her sister and clasped her tenderly, “don’t
talk any more.”

“I must,” feverishly. “My first coherent idea after discovering that
Bruce was really dead and beyond human assistance was to remove the
bloodstains from my skirt; later I went to summon Dr. Noyes and found
him gone. Mr. Mitchell,” turning to him, “when I realized that you and
Dr. Thorne suspected that I had discovered Bruce’s murder some time
before I went in search of assistance, I dared not tell you about the
bloodstains, fearing you would think that I had killed him. God knows
I had sufficient motive, knowing all that my sister had endured at his
hands. Frankly, I believed that Hugh, knowing all this, had killed
Bruce, and I tried to shield him--forgive the suspicion, Hugh--”

Without speaking, Wyndham wrung her hands warmly. “Don’t ask my pardon;
I thought _you_ guilty,” he confessed shamefacedly, “and from the same
motive.”

Mitchell was about to speak when Millicent rose and approached Murray.
She shrank slightly on meeting the counterfeiter’s eyes, but asked
gently:

“Murray, I have always been kind to you. Will you not do me the
justice to state that I was not in the room--that Craig was mistaken
when he saw me just before you killed Bruce?”

“But you were there,” objected Murray.

“I was not,” and she stamped her foot. “I would have been aware of it,
Murray.”

“No, you wouldn’t, because you were sleep-walking.” Murray’s statement
brought a cry, a glad cry from Noyes.

“I caught a glimpse of you, Millicent,” he broke in before the amazed
girl could speak, “just as I went down to the library to wait for my
telephone call. You were coming out of your mother’s boudoir and I saw
something glitter in your hand, but was too far away to make out in the
dim hall light what you were carrying. Thinking you were going to your
brother’s room I went downstairs.”

“How long did you remain in the library?” asked Mitchell.

“Until nearly four o’clock. Before returning to my room I went to see
how Brainard was getting along, and was stupefied to find him dead.”
Noyes chose his words with care. “I recognized the razor as one of a
set which Mrs. Porter had given me that morning. I remembered that I
had left the set in her boudoir, and recalled my glimpse of Millicent,
and that she was advancing toward Brainard’s door; I feared that in a
moment of mental aberration she had killed him. The thought was agony.”
Noyes almost broke down as he met Millicent’s adoring eyes. “I decided
that if I left the house I might be thought guilty; the razor was mine,
I had threatened to kill Brainard, so I went--”

“But not before I saw you coming from Bruce’s bedroom,” added
Millicent. “I had no idea I had been walking in my sleep, for I awoke
in my bed, and being unable to sleep I got up and partly dressed,
intending to go in and sit with Vera and my brother. Your expression,
Alan, as you walked away from Bruce’s bedroom terrified me, and
gathering my courage I went there--saw Bruce--the razor--” She caught
her breath--

“Recalling your threat to kill Bruce, I imagined you had carried it
out,” she went on, as no one spoke. “I crept back to my bedroom,
horrified beyond words, and later it occurred to me that perhaps Bruce
was not beyond medical aid, and I rushed downstairs to telephone
Dr. Thorne--” She stopped, unable to go on. “I secured the set of
razors and first hid them in an old trunk in the attic, then in the
cannon--the rest you know.”

Noyes, rising with some difficulty, stepped forward, and with a manner
not to be denied, slipped his one arm about her waist, and led her
across the room. Dorothy, standing nearest the heavy mahogany door as
it slowly closed behind the pair, saw Millicent’s head droop forward
and her discreet ears alone caught Noyes’ low whisper:

“Mine, at last!”

Silence prevailed in the library for some minutes after the departure
of Millicent and her lover, then Thorne turned to Murray.

“Was Miss Millicent in the room when you killed Brainard?” he asked.

“No, she had gone out some minutes before,” answered Murray, his voice
slightly strained. “I went in to see Brainard just to talk things over
with him. He was lying half asleep, and when Miss Millicent appeared
I was waiting in one corner of the room. Brainard must have heard her
entrance, for he looked at her, half terrified and half hypnotized.
Finally, after staring at him, she dropped the razor on the bed and
left the room. Then I crept over to the bed, and the sight of the
razor put the devil into me. I knew Brainard would squeal on me as soon
as he felt well enough to think things over; he would never believe
that I had reformed, and my blood boiled at the prospect of arrest
and losing the results of my work at the cabin and in Mrs. Porter’s
town house. I got the razor--” He shuddered, and did not complete the
sentence.

Mitchell stirred uneasily and eyed Murray askance. “When you found the
cabin was in the hands of the Secret Service why didn’t you clear out
instead of coming back here?” he demanded.

“Because it never dawned on me that Brainard’s murder could be traced
to me,” admitted Murray; dejection as well as fear had crept into his
manner. “I knew you would find no incriminating papers at the cabin,
and old Cato is faithful--he would not have told on me. I could not
bear to run away, in itself a confession of guilt, and leave my life
work behind me.”

“So much for over-confidence,” commented Mitchell dryly. “Come along,
Murray.”

Murray got to his feet slowly, and his bow to the company was not
without a certain dignity. “Good-by, ma’am,” he said, addressing
Mrs. Porter. “You’ve always treated me well during the seven years
I’ve lived with you. Tell Mr. Craig I don’t bear him malice.” And he
vanished through the door as Mrs. Porter, her overwrought feelings
mastering her, fainted for the first time in her life.

An hour later Dorothy, speeding through the lower hall, was intercepted
by Thorne.

“Will you please tell your sister that I would like to see her for a
few minutes?” he said. “I will wait in the drawing-room.”

Without wasting words, Dorothy, a mischievous smile dimpling her
cheeks, hurried upstairs. As she turned from delivering Thorne’s
message to Vera she encountered Hugh Wyndham, who was waiting for her
in his aunt’s boudoir.

“Dorothy”--Wyndham stood tall and straight before her--“Jacob served
seven years for Rachel--the desire of his heart; how long must I serve
for mine?”

Dorothy’s roguish smile, so long lost in the care and turmoil of her
daily life, lit her charming face as she answered:

“Just as long as it will require to get Vera’s permission. No, wait,”
as Wyndham, hardly able to believe such swift capitulation, sprang
toward the door. “_You_ may set the date, Hugh.”

Down in the drawing-room the minutes passed on leaden feet for Thorne.
Would Vera never come? He finally turned in despair and found her
watching him from the doorway.

He was by her side instantly, and held out a black-edged visiting-card.

“You sent me this, Vera, as you said--‘In grateful remembrance’--for
the little aid I was able to render your mother when she was stricken
in the street with heart failure. Later, in Philadelphia I saw you, but
was too shy to introduce myself, but I have never forgotten my first
glimpse of you. I have always treasured the card and your picture,
possessed by a strong conviction that we should some day meet again.

“Two months ago I heard that Bruce Brainard had eloped with a Miss
Deane of Washington, and I stupidly jumped to the conclusion that
it was you. It never occurred to me that it might be your sister.
The thought that you were innocently involved in Brainard’s murder
was torture to me, and I could not rest until the real criminal was
arrested and you were entirely exonerated.

“You must know and realize how passionately I love you.” His voice was
very tender, and her eyes fell before his ardent look. “I have little
to offer, Vera. Is there any hope for me?”

Vera’s lovely eyes were alight with happiness as she looked up at
him. “There’s more than hope,” she whispered, and the words were lost
against his shoulder; then she looked bravely upward and their lips met
in the first kiss of love.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.

  New original cover art included with this eBook is granted to the
    public domain.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MOVING FINGER ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


